BOSTON  The atmosphere was terrific and so was the game, a ragged but thrilling winter afternoon of pond hockey that just happened to be played in the country’s oldest and one of its most beloved major league baseball stadiums.Marco Sturm’s goal gave the Boston Bruins a 2-1 overtime victory over the Philadelphia Flyers in the third Winter Classic, which wound up as another big hit for the N.H.L.’s New Year’s Day outdoor game.“That’s probably what I dreamed of this morning, to score in overtime,” said Sturm, who tipped in a shot from Patrice Bergeron under the darkening sky, then glided over to the glass at the left-field corner of the rink, his arms aloft in relief and exultation, as his teammates jumped over the boards and mobbed him  a walk-off goal at Fenway Park.Sturm’s goal, and the desperate tying goal scored by the Bruins’ Mark Recchi with 2 minutes 18 seconds left in regulation, set off an explosion of celebration among the 38,112 fans at Fenway.“We hadn’t given our fans much to cheer about,” said Recchi, who is 41 and the highest-scoring active N.H.L. player. “But then when I got to the bench it hit me. The noise and the energy in the stadium was incredible.”Up until the third period, the game was marked by frequent missed passes, fanned shots and offensive rushes that ended in offside. It was hard to tell whether all the errors were the result of the puck bouncing irregularly along the ice surface, as it often did in temperatures that varied between 39 degrees at the opening face-off and 35 when Sturm scored, or simply by the first outdoor meeting between two mediocre teams.But that was almost beside the point. The old ballpark was sold out and, as in previous Winter Classics, about a third of the fans cheered for the visitors. Philadelphia fans chanted “Let’s go Flyers,” dominating the vocal support early in the game, but by the second period Boston fans were replying with “Let’s go Bruins,” and the dueling chants resounded through the stadium.“I’m surprised to see how much orange there is here,” said Travis Haynes, 38, a Flyers fan who lives in Laconia, N.H., who watched the game from a seat atop the Green Monster, which offered one of the best views of the rink. “But it’s been friendly between the fans.”A party mood prevailed, with the crowd singing along to the Red Sox staple “Sweet Caroline” halfway through the third period.“This is fantastic,” said Mark Gralinski, 38, a Bruins fan from Springfield, Mass., who also watched from the Green Monster. “I’m not much of a baseball fan, but it’s great they they’re doing this here.”The only goal of the first two periods, perhaps fittingly, was the result of a miscue. During a flurry by the Flyers, Philadelphia forward Scott Hartnell slyly tripped Bruins goalie Tim Thomas. While the puck went back to Flyers defenseman Danny Syvret, Thomas retaliated by crosschecking Hartnell  just as Syvret’s shot went between Thomas’s legs at 4:42 of the second period for his first N.H.L. goal.“I was very grateful that we tied the game, because the only goal the Flyers got was because I lost my cool,” Thomas said.The afternoon also featured the first fight in an N.H.L. outdoor game.The frequent fighter Daniel Carcillo of the Flyers exchanged punches with and knocked down his Bruins counterpart Shawn Thornton 12 minutes into the game. As he stepped into the penalty box, Carcillo turned to the crowd and flashed a devil-horn sign with both hands, a gesture he characterized as “Yeah  rock ’n’ roll!”Carcillo suggested that he and Thornton had a tacit pregame agreement to scrap. “We were looking at each other in warm-up and smiling,” Carcillo said. “We were going to do it.”Sturm, Recchi and Thomas were asked what they would take away as their strongest impressions of the Winter Classic.“Yesterday, walking out when it was snowing was an amazing feeling,” Recchi said of Thursday’s practice session at Fenway.“Walking out today, with all the fans in the seats, gave me a little taste of what a baseball player would feel,” Thomas said.Sturm said, “Yesterday, the family skate was unbelievable  my son didn’t want to go off.”Thomas said that he would never forget the overtime victory at Fenway.“When Marco scored the winner,” he said, “that was one of the most incredible feelings that I can remember.”It was the first time in the league’s four outdoor games, including the 2003 Heritage Classic in Edmonton, that the home team won.PASADENA, Calif. — It has been a trying season for Ohio State quarterback Terrelle Pryor.But throughout the ups and downs, he’s been able to turn to the Cleveland Cavaliers superstar LeBron James for advice. James started talking with Pryor last year to try to help him cope with his youthful fame.The two have not spoken recently, but Pryor said that James had preached to him about the importance of taking advantage of opportunities like his eighth-ranked team’s game Friday against No. 7 Oregon in the 96th Rose Bowl.“Every game is a stage,” Pryor said. “This is a big stage. We have to perform better on big stages.”An announcement this week that Van Morrison, 64, had become a father again was a hoax posted by hackers on his Web site, according to a statement issued on Thursday in Mr. Morrison’s name and reported by Agence France-Presse. The initial announcement on his Web site (vanmorrison.com) said that he was the proud father of a new son, George Ivan Morrison III. It added that the baby was “the spitting image of his daddy” and a dual citizen of Britain and the United States. On Thursday a statement issued on Mr. Morrison’s behalf by the public relations company Fleishman-Hillard International said that the reports were “completely and utterly without foundation,” and that he had asked his management “to carry out an immediate investigation into a hacking attack which took place on my Web site on Dec. 29th last.” The first announcement said the child was born to Mr. Morrison and Gigi Lee, who was identified as his wife and manager. But an executive at Fleishman-Hillard, John Saunders, said in an interview with the Irish state radio network that Mr. Morrison had told him that the story was “completely false,” and that he had not heard of Gigi Lee. Mr. Morrison’s statement added, “For the avoidance of all doubt and in the interests of clarity, I am very happily married to Michelle Morrison, with whom I have two wonderful children.”Queen Elizabeth’s annual honors list, announced at midnight on the last day of each year to recognize distinguished service to Britain, includes a knighthood for the actor Patrick Stewart, right, better known to devotees of “Star Trek: The Next Generation” as Capt. Jean-Luc Picard and to fans of the “X-Men” movie series as Prof. Charles Xavier. Also knighted was the artistic director of the National Theater in London, Nicholas Hytner, whose credits include “Miss Saigon” and the film and stage versions of “The Madness of King George.” Arts figures also appear among those receiving the distinction of membership in the Order of the British Empire, the next level down from a knighthood. The jazz pianist Marian McPartland, the longtime host of National Public Radio’s “Piano Jazz” program, received the honor, as did Rick Parfitt and Francis Rossi, songwriting partners and singer-guitarists in the boogie rock band Status Quo. They were joined on the list by the Scottish film composer and producer Craig Armstrong, and Peter Tear, executive director of the Off Broadway 59E59 Theaters.Deepening the mystery over the theft of a valuable painting by the 19th-century French artist Edgar Degas, the police in Marseille on Friday released a night watchman who had been detained for questioning the day before. He was on duty when the work, valued at about $1.15 million, vanished from the Cantini Museum there. The piece, “The Chorus,” a small pastel that shows singers performing on a theater stage, was missing when the museum opened on Thursday, and there was no sign of a break-in. It was one of about 20 Degas works on loan from the Musée d’Orsay in Paris for an exhibition of paintings with theatrical themes. It was to close on Sunday and travel this year to Italy and Canada.Poland officially began commemorations of the bicentennial of the birth of its most celebrated composer, Frédéric Chopin, on Friday with a ceremony at his birthplace, Zelazowa Wola, about 50 miles west of Warsaw, and a concert in the capital featuring the Warsaw Philharmonic Orchestra. More than 2,000 events, nearly half outside Poland, are planned during the bicentennial, including films, jazz performances, exhibitions and the 16th annual Chopin International Competition. Warsaw will also host a Chopin festival that begins next week with a performance by the popular Chinese pianist Lang Lang and is also scheduled to feature Daniel Barenboim and Martha Argerich later in the year.Sandra Bullock, who appears in the hit films “The Blind Side” and “The Proposal,” has been named the top box office draw of 2009 in a survey of theater owners and executives, Reuters reported. Ms. Bullock, right, who has appeared in a number of clinkers and had been absent from screens since 2007, is the first woman to win that distinction since Julia Roberts a decade ago. Johnny Depp was second on the annual list, which seeks to measure both box office success and audience appeal, and was followed by Matt Damon, George Clooney and Robert Downey Jr. Ms. Bullock’s two hits, one a romantic comedy and the other a drama, grossed more than $500 million last year; she also starred in and produced “All About Steve,” which took in only $34 million in North America and received overwhelmingly negative reviews.The Musée du Luxembourg in Paris will close when its current exhibition, a display of Tiffany glass works, ends on Jan. 17, the French government has announced. The museum, housed in the Luxembourg Palace, has drawn more than 5.5 million visitors since its administration was turned over to a private company in 2000; its exhibitions have included shows focusing on Modigliani, Botticelli and the holdings of the Phillips Collection in Washington. But according to the Paris daily Le Monde, museum administrators and the French Senate, which controls the museum building, have quarreled over administrative and financial issues, and the Senate has decided to reassert its control. Two planned exhibitions, including one on Impressionism, have been canceled, and 100 full- and part-time employees are to be laid off.In a decision that may have implications for both Hollywood and Broadway, the Australian actress Cate Blanchett and her husband, Andrew Upton, right, have announced that they will extend their term as joint artistic directors of the Sydney Theater Company until 2013. Ms. Blanchett and Mr. Upton , the Australian playwright, screenwriter and director, took on that position for a three-year term that began in 2008, and they have enlisted Oscar winners like Steven Soderbergh and Philip Seymour Hoffman in company productions. “We hope more and more people, especially those in Sydney, will find their way to the company and join us on this incredible ride,” the couple said in a statement on Friday, according to The Australian. It was not immediately clear what impact their decision would have on efforts to bring to Broadway the recent production of Tennessee Williams’s “Streetcar Named Desire” at the Brooklyn Academy of Music starring Ms. Blanchett and directed by Liv Ullmann.Lynda Benglis is best when operating at an extreme, any extreme. Her 40-year career has included extremes of color, erotic posturing, decorative flamboyance, eccentric materials and innovative processes.These were first visible in the late 1960s in exquisitely delicate wax paintings, whose layered pastels and melting surfaces evoked tinted skin. The melted wax begat poured floor pieces in pigmented latex that were basically paint run wild, as well as more dimensional versions that were pumped with foam (suggesting scoops of melting ice cream) and occasionally even cantilevered from walls.The 1970s brought Ms. Benglis’s “Sparkle Knots”  twisted and tied tubes of screening painted with watery plaster and sprinkled with glitter; then, excursions into various metals, like copper, gold leaf and silver; and, somewhere along the way, wonderfully grotesque ceramic abstractions. And always  her gender-bending self-portraits, like the ad in Artforum for which she posed naked and well oiled, wielding a large double-headed dildo. This was a flagrant reminder that much of her work is about the body as both a sexual, if ambiguous, entity and a sculptural form.But periodically Ms. Benglis moves toward the middle, toward more generic abstraction and more conventional materials, especially bronze. Her inner formalist takes over, and she relies a bit too much on the shapes and auras of Benglises past.This is the case with her current show, “Lynda Benglis: New Work,” at Cheim & Read, which is dominated by black-patina bronze wall sculptures whose splayed, textured fragments are at once bodylike, painterly and levitating in suggestion, but not in a particularly new way.A stronger impression is made by the hemispherical wall pieces in polyurethane, tinted hot pink or red. They glow with translucent color and refracted light, and suggest pregnant bellies, small planets or enormous gum drops. These forms, plus the torsolike “Swinburne Figure I,” seem to have resulted from coiling fat strands of extruded polyurethane into mounds and shapes, as if from a slightly enlarged tube of toothpaste. They signal Ms. Benglis’s continuing interest in new materials and techniques and in working in soft, process-friendly materials that harden. The bronze wall pieces seem to be cast from forms made the same way, but the black metal tends to deaden detail and texture.Even in the polyurethane works, however, the radiant color and material do too much of the work, which is to say that they dazzle, first and last, as beautifully made curiosities that don’t extend far enough beyond their formal properties.But all innovative, driven artists  of which Ms. Benglis is definitely one  have comfortable ruts they periodically fall into, or pitfalls they need to avoid. This show emphasizes hers, while giving notice that in all probability she will soon be working her way out of them.