Columbia University is one of New York's largest landowners, and perhaps the one with the most to gain from the state's power to seize private property. But in a surprise ruling in early December, a state court struck down the city's attempt to take private land in West Harlem and give it to the university. Now that case is becoming an important beachhead in the fight over eminent domain.Columbia wants the land as part of its 17-acre plan to build a research and academic facility. A decade ago it started acquiring as much of the land as it could. In recent years, however, a few holdouts were impossible to dislodge. The university turned to the Empire State Development Corporation (ESDC), a public company that has the power to compel landowners to sell through eminent domain.Columbia contends that its academic center will upgrade the neighborhood, create 6,900 jobs, and make immense contributions in biotechnology and health research. There is little reason to doubt any of these assertions. Columbia is one of the nation's leading research institutions and New York City's seventh-largest private employer.But should its importance entitle the university to take property owned by others?Nick Sprayregen, a 47-year-old businessman, says no. He owns Tuck-It-Away Self-Storage, which is located in a brick building inside the footprint of Columbia's project. The business was started by his father in 1980, and he intends to pass it along to his children. So he joined a lawsuit to keep his land. He claims that taking his property would violate the state's constitution. The state can seize land that is considered blighted, but he argues that his neighborhood is sound and had been steadily improving before Columbia launched its expansion plans. He notes that there are excellent new restaurants that have sprung up in the neighborhood, and there are also nice artist studios and lofts, rehabilitated, city-owned apartment buildings, and successful manufacturers.He acknowledges there is some blight but blames Columbia for it. As recently as August 2002, data prepared by the accounting firm of Ernst & Young for New York City's Economic Development Corporation showed that 54 of the 67 lots in question were in good, very good or fair condition. In November 2007, a study by AKRF Consultants reached a dramatically different conclusion—that the area was "substantially unsafe, unsanitary, substandard, and deteriorated."What happened, argues Mr. Sprayregen, was that Columbia had increased its ownership or control from a handful of properties in 2001 to 51% in 2007 and 91% of the area today. Along the way it let the properties decay by erecting ugly scaffolding, pushing out commercial tenants, and allowing trash to pile up.In all, Mr. Sprayregen put 10,000 pages of documents into the court record to show that West Harlem was not blighted before Columbia began its plans. "Is it fair to reward a private entity for its own bad conduct, its own role in producing neighborhood deterioration?" he asks.State Supreme Court Justice James Catterson seems to agree with Mr. Sprayregen that it isn't. In ruling against Columbia on Dec. 3, he wrote that the use of eminent domain "to benefit a private elite education institution is violative of the Takings Clause of the U.S. Constitution, of the New York Constitution, and the 'first principles of the social contract.'"Judge Catterson also wrote that "the blight designation in the instant case is mere sophistry. It was utilized by ESDC years after the scheme was hatched to justify the employment of eminent domain but this project has always primarily concerned a massive capital project for Columbia."Judge Catterson's decision sets up a conflict that will likely shape how eminent domain is used in the future. Just a week before he issued his ruling, New York's highest court, the Court of Appeals, decided in Goldstein et al. v. Urban Development Corporation that ESDC could seize private property in Brooklyn and hand it over to Forest City Ratner, a private developer.That case was a big setback for private property advocates, who had spent years trying to curtail the use of eminent domain and who got a bump in public support after the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in Kelo v. the City of New London (2005) that states could seize private land as part of private development projects.Now, in the wake of Judge Catterson's ruling, the state's Court of Appeals will likely have to take the issue up again if the case is appealed. Perhaps this time it will impose strict limits on when the power of eminent domain can be used.State Sen. Bill Perkins, a Harlem Democrat and chairman of the committee on corporations, authorities and commissions, doesn't want to leave it to the courts. He held one public meeting on Judge Catterson's ruling before Christmas and is planning a second this coming week. He also fired off a letter to Democratic Gov. David A. Paterson asking him not to appeal Judge Catterson's ruling, and to impose a "statewide moratorium on the use of eminent domain" until the state legislature can pass legislation that specifies how the power can be used.The governor hasn't decided what to do, but he doesn't have the luxury of sitting on the sidelines forever. With two conflicting court decisions and a brewing controversy, the legislature will almost certainly pass something that will force him to choose sides.If Judge Catterson's ruling stands, Mr. Sprayregen he says he will keep running his business. He once told me, "I can coexist with Columbia. Why can't Columbia coexist with me?"Zachary Karabell rightly decries the development of a false thesis concerning the need for a "rebalancing" of global economic activity ("The 'Global Imbalances' Myth," op-ed, Dec. 21). With respect to the origins of the current downturn, however, he has joined the Obama administration in buying into the false conventional wisdom that our recent crisis was "triggered by massive misplaced bets on the U.S. housing market and trillions of dollars of [innovative] derivatives" based on such malinvestment; as well as "electronic and instantaneous" capital flows; "greed on the part of banks and investors world-wide"; and an "economic fusion between China and the U.S. that kept interest rates low and inflation lower."Not once does Mr. Karabell mention the core root of all of these recent phenomena: the Federal Reserve's extreme monetary ease for most of this decade. Loose money for a long period falsified the term structure of interest rates, leading to distorted patterns of capital investment and resource allocation. Further, asset values became distorted across the globe, as other nations acted in concert with the Fed, multiplying global investment and trade errors and imbalances.This continued monetary pumping also led to the development of complex hedging instruments in the form of derivative securities, as investors sought to protect themselves from asset values changing primarily due to volatility in monetary relations. Increasing amounts of credit in the banking system always generate higher leverage on corporate balance sheets, thus intensifying the eventual correction.The inability of Mr. Karabell and President Obama to apprehend the origins of the "Great Recession" of 2008 in turn leads to convoluted policy recommendations. Mr. Karabell states, for example, that increased savings in the U.S., an unambiguously good thing, might nonetheless lead to "underinvestment in innovation, education and infrastructure." Since when did increased saving lead to underinvestment?But Mr. Obama agrees, saying we will "spend our way out of this recession." Mr. Karabell further states that China should continue its state spending binge so as not to disrupt domestic growth in China or global supply chains; one can only wonder what he thought of the inverse relationship between state spending and economic growth in, say, Japan, post-1990.Mr. Karabell misses an opportunity to explain the true cause of our most recent crisis: The real reason for our crisis is that the world lacks a true anchor of value. A system designed around an anchor of value features natural self-correcting mechanisms. This currently does not exist.Mr. Karabell says, "The blunt fact is that at no point in the past century has there been anything resembling a global economic equilibrium." In fact, the U.S. current account balance spent decades hovering around zero (i.e., balanced) prior to turning sharply negative in the early 1980s.Earlier in the century, while on the gold standard, a large current account deficit would be met with a large outflow of gold, which would act as a tightening on the banking system and would have kept unrestrained growth in credit and consumer spending in check. It would not have been possible to run the current account deficit the U.S. ran in the past 20 years if there were an anchor of value. Without the unrestrained credit growth that the U.S. experienced, the crisis would not have happened.The values of the stock market, corporate and government debt markets, commodities and currencies fluctuate with the sentiment of market participants whose history with regards to stability is bipolar at best. The resulting high volatility in oil price, its impact on our current account, the dollar and credit markets all emanate from this unanchored system. This volatility can serve as a trigger to financial instability when the underlying imbalances get precarious enough.To be clear, a system with a global anchor does not mean that there will not be high volatility. When we were on the gold standard we experienced many booms and busts but arguably they were kept in check since the underlying imbalances were never allowed to get so large as to threaten the whole system.If ever one year in recent times was a catalyst for change in the broader Middle East and Muslim world, it was 1979. One ray of bright light in that year of darkness was the signing of the historic Camp David peace treaty between Israel and Egypt. Conversely, three events had dire consequences with which we live today.First, there was the overthrow of the shah of Iran by the Ayatollah Khomeini. Second, there was the takeover of the Grand Mosque in Mecca, Saudi Arabia, by a group of Islamic extremists. And third, there was the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.Each event fostered the forces of radicalization with implications far beyond the region's borders.• Iran becomes a theocracy. Khomeini's revolution in the early months of 1979 established the wilayat al-faqih, or rule by a Muslim cleric who became the Supreme Leader. He, in effect, formed a theocratic system in Iran, a predominantly Shiite country, and declared the new regime to be "God's government," warning that subsequent disobedience was a "revolt against God."Ayatollah Khomenei called for Islamic revolutions throughout the region. When the deposed shah was admitted into the United States for medical treatment, Iranian students took over the U.S. embassy in Tehran, beginning the 444 day hostage ordeal. Khomeini set Iran on an adversarial course with America that continues to this day.As a result of U.S.-led military action, two of Iran's enemies have been overthrown—the Taliban regime in Afghanistan and Saddam Hussein's regime in Iraq. Iran has been expanding its influence in the region. It is the most important patron of Hezbollah in Lebanon, and it supports Hamas, thereby extending its reach into the Levant and the Arab-Israeli conflict. And, of course, Iran is the focus of international inquiry for its nuclear ambitions.• Saudi Arabia embraces the Wahhabis. On Nov. 20, 1979, a group of Islamic extremists attacked the Grand Mosque in Mecca, the holiest site in Islam, and held it for two weeks. The extremists included Saudis and Egyptians who were disenchanted with the Saudi regime. They proclaimed that the "Mahdi," the "Guided One," had come to restore righteousness and redeem the world and form a just Islamic society.The leader of the dissidents was a tribal preacher who opposed the conservative Saudi leadership as impious and in the hands of the West, especially the U.S. The seizure of the Grand Mosque was a blow to the Saudi regime's legitimacy, and to its role as guardian of Islam's holy places. It was only after a bitter armed confrontation and assistance from France's elite Gendarmerie special forces unit that the Saudis were able to defeat these radicals.In response to this crisis, the Saudi leadership perceived it to be in their interest to bolster their Islamic credentials by binding the regime even closer to the ultraconservative Wahhabis in the kingdom. The Saudi government upped its financial support for the spread of Wahhabi doctrine on a global scale, including assistance to some madrassas, such as those in Pakistan, that teach an extreme view of Islam and have trained militants that later swelled the ranks of al Qaeda and other Islamic extremist groups.In recent years, however, and as a result of acts of violence and terrorism directed against targets in the kingdom, the Saudi government has begun to crack down on Islamic terrorist groups inside the country and on its borders—as evidenced by recent military actions against groups based in Yemen.• The Soviets invade Afghanistan. In late December 1979, the Soviet Union invaded this mountainous, undeveloped nation, in order to maintain a pro-Soviet regime on their border in Central Asia. The invasion mobilized a whole generation of Muslims, and turned Afghanistan into a flashpoint in U.S.-Soviet relations.I was the head of the political section of the U.S. embassy in Moscow at the time. I accompanied our ambassador, Thomas Watson Jr., who had been asked to come to the Soviet foreign ministry by Foreign Minister Gromyko's deputy. He told us "that the Soviet government wanted the United States to be the first to be informed of the Soviet Union's response to the Afghanistan government's request for humanitarian assistance."***We of course already had clear and timely information about the Soviet military action. Ambassador Watson turned to me and asked, rhetorically, "Is the translation correct" and I replied, "Unfortunately, it is."Watson glared at the deputy minister and asked in no uncertain terms, "Is this what you want me to report to my president [Jimmy Carter]? Do you understand the consequences of your military action on the relations between our two countries?" The startled man had no answer, and we got up and stormed out of the room.The consequences were great. Under the Carter and Reagan administrations, a major effort was made to make the Soviets stand down. The U.S. supported the Afghans and the mujahedeen in a way that facilitated the Soviet defeat—a defeat that was a major factor in the demise of the Soviet Union.There were other unintended consequences. Our support of the mujahedeen, followed by our virtual abandonment of Afghanistan after the Soviet retreat, helped create a radical fringe of Islamist fighters and radicals, including Osama bin Laden and al Qaeda.Last year we celebrated the great historic achievements marked by the 20th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall and the subsequent unification of Germany. But we should also remember that events in the broader Middle East of 30 years ago have left, in sharp contrast, a bitter and dangerous legacy.WASHINGTON—Wednesday's attack on a U.S. compound in Afghanistan devastated what has been a hub of counterterrorism and intelligence operations for the spy agency.Seven Central Intelligence Agency officers and contractors were killed and six more wounded in the suicide bomb attack at Forward Operating Base Chapman, CIA Director Leon Panetta said Thursday, the second-largest single-day loss for the spy agency in its history.Among the casualties was the agency's base chief, former intelligence officials said. There had been only four publicly acknowledged CIA fatalities in Afghanistan prior to this attack.The Taliban claimed responsibility Thursday for the bombing, which was carried out by suicide bomber wearing an Afghan National Army uniform. Some senior officials think the bomber may have been given access to the base because he was believed to be an informant, said two former intelligence officials.Several former intelligence officials described the attack in Afghanistan as "devastating" to the agency. A number of the officers killed had been counterterrorism operatives since before the 9/11 attacks. The base played a critical role in the CIA's significant operations in the country, including helping with drone attacks and informant networks in Pakistan.The loss of seven officers is significant for a relatively small agency whose workforce is estimated to be 10,000 or more, but it's all the more damaging because those lost represented so much collective experience.They were "experienced frontline officers and their knowledge and expertise will be sorely missed" and not easily regenerated, said Henry A. Crumpton, who led the CIA campaign in Afghanistan in 2001 and 2002.The number of casualties in Wednesday's attack was second to those sustained in the Beirut embassy bombing in 1983, which killed eight CIA officers. The Beirut bombing hit the agency's Middle East group hard, and was one of the key events that drove the creation of the CIA's Counterterrorist Center a few years later."It will mark this generation the same way Beirut marked mine," said Ron Marks, a 16-year CIA veteran, who left the agency in 1999. With CIA officers deployed to the far reaches of Afghanistan and Pakistan for extended periods, he said, the agency has been lucky to have avoided such attacks for as long as it did.It could also sow mistrust between CIA officers and the Afghan operatives with whom they work closely, another former agency officer said. ""This is a huge blow to the agency. It's a close-knit group," the former officer said. "They're not going to know who to trust now."The base was located in Khost province, a hotbed of militant activity and a stronghold of the Haqqani Network, one of the most hardened and dangerous militant groups, which fought for a decade to wrest the area back from the RussiansThe CIA's Khost base was established in the months after the 9/11 attacks as the U.S. launched its CIA-led offensive against al Qaeda and the Taliban in Afghanistan. It began as a makeshift center for CIA-Afghan operations. By mid-2002, it had grown into a major counterterrorism hub for joint operations with CIA, military Special Operations forces and Afghan allies.  Its primary role has been to run informant networks in Afghanistan and over the border, said one former agency official. "That was one of the bases where they were paying people and running people and sending them into Pakistan," he said.The CIA's activities on the base were an open secret locally, he added, "al Qaeda knows it and the townspeople know it and the Taliban know it."The attack in Afghanistan came during an already difficult week for the CIA, which has taken a beating in Washington with President Barack Obama issuing a blunt critique of intelligence failures in advance of the botched Christmas Day terrorist attack.The brazen assault may prompt a re-examination how CIA deploys operatives into dangerous tribal regions in Afghanistan and Pakistan, and how local employees and other local operatives working with the CIA are vetted, former intelligence officials said."Those who fell yesterday were far from home and close to the enemy, doing the hard work that must be done to protect our country from terrorism," Mr. Panetta said in a message to agency employees. "We owe them our deepest gratitude, and we pledge to them and their families that we will never cease fighting for the cause to which they dedicated their lives—a safer America."Mr. Panetta credited military doctors and nurses with saving the lives of the wounded. He said the agency would not release the identities of the officers killed at this time."Yesterday's tragedy reminds us that the men and women of the CIA put their lives at risk every day to protect this nation," Mr. Panetta said.President Barack Obama also wrote to CIA employees Thursday to praise the service of officers who were killed."These brave Americans were part of a long line of patriots who have made great sacrifices for their fellow citizens and for our way of life," he wrote. Since the Sept. 2001 terrorist attacks, he said, "because of your service, plots have been disrupted, American lives have been saved, and our Allies and partners have been more secure."The CIA began mobilizing against the perpetrators of the attack. "The CIA is already working hard to find those who supported the Khost attack," a U.S. intelligence official, adding "this attack will be avenged through successful, aggressive counterterrorism operations."CIA spokesman George Little said that the attack serves as a reminder of the dangerous nature of the CIA's work. "There's still a lot to be learned about what happened," he said. "The key lesson is that counterterrorism work is dangerous. Our fallen and wounded colleagues were on the front lines, conducting essential operations to protect our country."On Capitol Hill, the leaders of the House and Senate intelligence committees issued statements of condolence.Wednesday's casualties will be added to a wall in the CIA's lobby, which currently features 90 stars representing agency employees killed in the line of duty. The most recent one was added in June to memorialize an officer killed last year, but the officer's name and duties weren't made public.According to a military official who works on Afghan issues, Chapman has grown substantially in recent months and is a base for both military and intelligence operations. Because of its size, the officer said, the suicide bomber likely penetrated multiple layers of security before detonating the explosives.Much about the attack at Forward Operating Base Chapman remained uncertain. Officials variously said the blast had occurred as the bomber exited a car, or after the bomber had reached the base's gym or its cafeteria.Forward operating bases typically house hundreds of soldiers, and Afghan forces and private contractors also often live on such bases. But CIA outposts on these bases are usually small—no more than 15 or maybe 20 people, so 13 casualties is likely a majority of the CIA base personnel, said one former agency official.The attack appeared to be the worst against foreigners since October, when 10 Americans -- seven troops and three civilians -- were killed in a helicopter crash following a firefight with insurgents.It would also mark the first time a suicide bomber managed to strike inside a U.S. facility in the country, a sign of the insurgents' growing sophistication. Insurgents have been staging increasingly complicated assaults in recent months, including one where a militant infiltrated the country's police force and killed five British soldiers.In a press release Thursday, the Taliban claimed responsibility for the Khost attack. "The martyr attack was carried out by an Afghan military, Samiullah, when the CIA agents got together in a U.S. club-cum-training center for a meeting in order to collect information on the Mujahiodeen," the release said, according to a translation by the Middle East Media Research Institute."According to one of the club's guards, the CIA employees, dressed in Afghan uniform were in the club discussing as an army officer entered the club and set off his explosive-packed vest, killing and injuring all inside the club."KABUL--The suicide bomber who killed eight Americans, including seven CIA officers, this week might have been able to get through multiple layers of security at the U.S. compound aided by an Afghan informant with the agency, a Western official said Friday.If this is true, it suggests insurgents had turned the tables on the CIA and been able to place their own agents close to the facility the CIA used to cultivate informants.On Wednesday, CIA officials had invited the attacker onto the base with the hopes of recruiting him as an informant. They used an Afghan intermediary to arrange the meeting. The attacker arrived, wearing an Afghan army uniform, officials said.The assault shows a strategy the insurgency has increasingly employed here in recent months: using the uniforms and vehicles of the Afghan army and police to carry out attacks.At times, militants strike with the help of sympathizers in the Afghan forces. In November, an Afghan police officer opened fire on Western forces, killing five British soldiers, and a similar incident happened in early December. Insurgent sympathizers in the police force helped plan both attacks, Afghan officials said.Forward Operating Base Chapman in Khost province has served as a hub for U.S. intelligence activities in the southeastern part of the Afghanistan. Intelligence agents at the base cultivated informants and passed along information about insurgent commanders for Special Operations Forces to target, officials said.The main target in Khost is the Haqqani network, a Taliban-aligned faction active in the area that is considered one of the most potent and dangerous guerrilla forces in the country."We've had a number of successful operations against the Haqqanis," said a Western official. "We've picked up bomb makers and killed commanders, all through intelligence."In recent months, the U.S. has stepped up its attacks on insurgent leaders, leading to the deaths of a number of Haqqani and Taliban commanders. Between August and October, 30 insurgent leaders have been captured or killed in the eastern part of the country, and officials said that the operations have continued through the end of the year. Those killed include Mullah Farid Fazil Lang, who was involved in the kidnapping of New York Times journalist David Rohde, and Sali Jan, an important Haqqani network commander who operated near the Pakistani border.The targeting of insurgent leaders "has really dealt a blow to the Taliban," said Roshanak Wardak, a lawmaker from Wardak province. "Some of the most feared commanders have been killed."The loss of seven CIA agents in the strategically important area of Khost could deal a blow to U.S. efforts collect intelligence needed to crush insurgent leaders, Western and Afghan officials said.BEIJING -- China's Purchasing Managers Index rose again in December, the ten straight month of expansion in manufacturing activity.The index rose to 56.6 in December from 55.2 in November, the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said Friday. A PMI reading above 50 indicates growth, while a reading below 50 indicates contraction.Key activities of employment, imports and new orders grew, while new export orders fell, although they remained above the expansionary threshold, according to the federation's data, which compiles the views on the PMI's 11 component subindexes from more than 700 enterprises in China.The PMI data suggest China's economic growth rate in the fourth quarter of 2009 may have been its highest since the onset of the global financial crisis in late 2008.The December reading shows China's economic rebound continues to consolidate, but it may still be too soon to be overly optimistic about the trend, said PMI analyst Zhang Liqun in the federation's statement.Of the 11 categories that compose the PMI, nine rose, one fell, and one was unchanged in December compared with November.The new export orders component, an indication of future exports, fell to 52.6 in December from 53.6 in November, the federation said.Among components that rose, employment reached 52.2 last month, compared to November's 51.1, while at the same time new orders were up, at 61.0 from 58.4.The imports component also rose slightly, to 52.5 in December from 52.2 in November. Output was up at 61.4 last month, compared to 59.4 in November.The federation's PMI is the first of China's economic indicators issued every month. China will issue data for its fourth-quarter gross domestic product and other December economic indicators later this month. The country's quarterly economic year-on-year growth has been steadily rising since the start of 2009, boosted by massive stimulus measures.U.K. Prime Minister Gordon Brown said it is "increasingly clear" that accused airline bomber Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab linked up with al Qaeda after leaving the U.K. in 2008, damping speculation that Mr. Abdulmutallab was radicalized as a student in London.In an article posted on No. 10 Downing Street's Web site, Mr. Brown said that Mr. Abdulmutallab, the Nigerian accused of trying to down Northwest Airlines Flight 253, contacted "an extremist" in Yemen and "within a few short months" was trained to mount his operation."The failed attack in Detroit on Christmas Day reminds us of a deeper reality; that almost 10 years after September 11, international terrorism is still a very real threat," he said.Government officials have aggressively explored whether Mr. Abdulmutallab was radicalized during his time in London, where he was a college student from 2005 to 2008. Mr. Abdulmutallab took an active role in University College London's Islamic society, but testimonials from fellow students and other acquaintances there have failed to confirm suspicions that he was a terrorist in the making.U.K. security sources haven't yet established evidence that he was turning into an extremist while living in London.Mr. Brown said that Mr. Abdulmutallab's link with al Qaeda came in Yemen, where he lived during the months leading up to the attempted Christmas Day attack. In May 2009, Mr. Abdulmutallab made a second attempt to get into Britain but was refused a visaU.S. law enforcement officials believe Mr. Abdulmutallab took his first steps toward radicalization via the Internet, most likely while in school in London.The Yemeni branch of al Qaeda has claimed responsibility for the attempted attack.Mr. Brown said the Christmas plot reminded the world of "a major new base for terrorism" in Yemen. Regional and Western countries are forming a "Friends of Yemen" group, which will pool resources and expertise. By 2011, the U.K. will have donated over £100 million ($160 million) to the country, he said.On Friday, Downing Street said that Mr. Brown has also invited national leaders to a conference on Jan. 28 in London to discuss countering radicalization in Yemen.Downing Street said that the conference has the support of the White House and the European Union and the U.K. is now trying to secure the support of Saudi Arabia and other Gulf countries. The meeting will look at issues such as training of Yemeni forces and in encouraging economic, social and political reform in the country.Mr. Brown also said that the U.K. needs to remain vigilant against people being radicalized at home.Foreign governments have complained in the past that Britain has allowed itself to be used as a safe haven for Muslim radicals. In recent years the U.K. has attempted to clamp down. Since July 2005, eight individuals have been deported on grounds of national security and another eight have made voluntary departures having withdrawn their appeals against the notice of intention to deport, Downing Street said. Fifteen people are either detained or on bail pending deportation proceedings on grounds of national security.Mr. Brown ordered a review of airport security, saying the U.K. and other countries are now looking at ways to detect explosives and other weapons at airport security. Mr. Brown said that Britain is looking at explosive trace technology, full body scanners and advanced X-ray technology for its transport terminals.NEW DELHI –India will hold bandwidth auctions for third generation, or 3G, mobile phone services in February, a senior official at the Department of Telecommunications said Thursday, underscoring the government's intent to raise cash this financial year to shrink a yawning fiscal deficit.The new date will be put up on the department's Web site, the official--who is involved in the auction process--told Dow Jones Newswires, asking not to be named.The auctions were earlier scheduled to be held on Jan. 14. The department had recently deferred sending out invitations to prospective bidders to take part in the proposed auction.The official didn't give any reason for the delay.The auctions have been deferred thrice since these were first set for Jan. 16, 2009, over issues such as increase in the starting price of bandwidth and the number of slots to be sold.The 3G services will enable subscribers to get faster Internet connectivity on mobile phones, and download audio and video data."We believe that the 3G auction will occur this fiscal, even if it misses the Jan. 14 timeline," brokerage Religare Hitchens Harrison said in a recent note to its clients.The auctions are expected to yield 250 billion rupees ($5.35 billion) to the federal government, which needs the cash to help bridge the fiscal deficit that is estimated to soar to 6.8% of gross domestic product in the year to March 31. India's budget gap has surged after it cut taxes and increased spending to help cushion the economy from the adverse impact of a deep global downturn.The auctions will be held amid intense competition which has prompted companies to slash call tariffs and launch per-second billing plans in a bid to retain, or gain, subscribers in the world's fastest-growing mobile phone market by number of user additions.The government has decided to auction four slots of radio bandwidth, in addition to the one already allotted to state-run telecom service providers Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd. and Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Ltd.The government has set 35 billion rupees ($754.3 million) as the starting price for one such slot.NEW DELHI -- Automakers in India on Friday reported higher sales for December as a pickup in the local economy spurred demand.Maruti Suzuki India Ltd., Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd., Hero Honda Motors Ltd., TVS Motor Co. and the local units of Hyundai Motor Co. and General Motors Co. said their sales rose in the past month. The Indian unit of Yamaha Motor Co., however, reported a fall in sales.The local unit of Ford Motor Co. F -4.12% said its sales in the just-ended year rose 3% from 2008, but didn't provide the figures for December. Tata Motors Ltd. and Bajaj Auto Ltd. are expected report their numbers Saturday.Auto sales in India started picking up in February, after declining for four straight months, as the federal government provided incentives to purchase new vehicles through tax cuts, while commercial banks lowered interest rates. At the same time, India's economy started showing signs of a revival. It grew 7.9% in the three months ended Sept. 30, the fastest pace in more than a year.Maruti, the local unit of Suzuki Motor Corp. and India's biggest carmaker by sales, posted a 51% rise in total sales in December. Maruti's local sales grew 37%, while exports rose more than threefold, the company said.Hero Honda, the country's biggest two-wheeler company by sales, recorded a 74% jump in its December sales. "The calendar year 2009 has indeed been our best-ever performance," said Anil Dua, senior vice president of marketing and sales at Hero Honda. The company sold 4.4 million two-wheelers in 2009, up 22% from 2008.General Motors India said its sales in December more than doubled to 8,258 vehicles, the highest monthly total since it started selling cars in India in 1996. The company will introduce a new small car, the Beat, on Monday. "With consumer optimism slowly getting back, GM India should be able to register double-digit growth this financial year" ending March 31, the company said.Sales at TVS Motor, a maker of two- and three-wheeled vehicles, rose 34% in December. The company's motorcycle sales surged 24%. India Yamaha Motor reported sales for 2009 that were up 60%.NEW DELHI -- India's exports grew in November after a 13-month slump, but the gain had more to do with comparisons to weak numbers from a year earlier than a firm recovery in global demand.Merchandise exports climbed 18% in November to $13.2 billion, the Ministry of Commerce and Industries said in a statement Friday.Economists were expecting a positive print."There isn't much to cheer as the positive number is due to a weak comparative base," said Manoranjan Sharma, chief economist at Canara Bank. "The absolute value of exports have remained unchanged from October when the pace of decline slowed to 6.6% from the year-earlier period."Exports for the first eight months of the current financial year that began April 1 were down 22% from a year earlier at $104.2 billion.India's imports shrank 2.6% from year earlier to $22.9 billion in November as a 5.9% fall in non-oil imports more than offset a 7.3% rise in oil imports.The trade deficit in November narrowed 22% from a year earlier to $9.6 billion.India estimates its exports for the fiscal year ending March 31 to be between $165 billion and $170 billion, down from $185 billion last year, as the deep global downturn crimped demand across key markets in the U.S. and Europe.The November data follow a slew of impressive economic indicators that showed the Indian economy is on a firm footing. The economy grew 7.9% in the three months through Sept. 30, its fastest pace in more than a year.A sustained recovery in the economy may give the central bank more headroom to curb inflation by tightening the monetary policy.