TOKYO—Japan's embattled prime minister vowed to intensify his push for a controversial free-trade agreement, using his New Year's statement to promise progress on one of his top policy initiatives, despite his political weakness.Prime Minister Naoto Kan said he will focus this year on the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement and will seek the overhaul of Japan's agricultural sector that would be required to join the pact. Mr. Kan also said he will pursue economic partnership agreements with the European Union, South Korea and Australia, in a New Year's statement released Saturday.In the New Year's message the prime minister laid out goals for 2011 in broad terms that include steps to help reignite Japan's economic formidability. Japan will "seek new possibilities in agriculture, forestry and fisheries," while also promoting free trade, he said.Mr. Kan's ability to win the reforms needed to make those policy changes—or even to stay in office much longer—is unclear. A flurry of recent public opinion polls show his popular support rate has fallen below 30%, a level that leaves him little political capital to make tough reforms.On the trade agreement, the prime minister faces tough resistance from farm lobbies and fellow party politicians in his battle to lift heavy tariffs that have long protected the domestic agricultural sector from overseas competition. Mr. Kan's plans to initiate talks to join the Trans-Pacific Partnership during the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting in early November sparked broadsides from Japanese farming groups.The regional trade agreement seeks to eliminate all tariffs among member nations in 10 years. While the pact would pinch the country's declining agricultural sector even more, it would help make Japanese manufacturers more competitive on the international stage. Facing increasingly tough competition from China and fearing the empowerment of South Korean rivals as a result of Seoul's aggressive trade liberalization, Japanese manufacturers are fighting hard to get the government to commit to the agreement.NEW YORK—A scarcity of commodities such as cotton, sugar and coffee that propelled prices to historic highs late in 2010 is expected to continue into 2011, and it could mean more prices increases for consumers.Cotton, sugar and coffee are seen remaining in recent high price ranges as supplies remain low.Cotton broke a post-Civil War record in December, as supplies from top producers failed to keep up with demand, particularly China's voracious appetite for the fiber. Cotton futures gained 91.5% for the year; the March contract closed 2010 on the InterContinental Exchange at $1.4481 a pound on Friday.The run up has led some large clothing manufacturers to increase prices. In December, Hanesbrands Inc. HBI -4.55% said it will raise prices in the first quarter to offset higher cotton costs, and that it is considering more increases for mid-2011. VF Corp., VFC -5.15% which produces The North Face, Lee and Wrangler clothing, recently said it expects to "have select price increases across our portfolio of brands next year."A late harvest in India and lower estimates for stockpile levels in July, when the U.S. crop year ends, have pushed prices higher. Little relief is expected until the next U.S. harvest in fall 2011."We're going to be living with historically high prices for the rest of 2011," said Mike Stevens, an independent cotton analyst based in Mandeville, La. "I see nothing on the horizon that would change that, short of severe economic slowdown."Coffee prices, which hit their highest prices since mid 1997 this year, are also expected to stay high. The emergence of new coffee drinkers in Brazil and China and sustained demand in North America and Europe through the economic downturn were met with lower output from top producers of the prized, mild washed arabica beans. Torrential rain tore through Colombia and Central America this year.Coffee futures rose 77% this year, ending 2010 at $2.4050 a pound.The higher prices have led Starbucks Corp., SBUX -2.71% Kraft Foods Inc. and Farmer Bros. Corp. to raise prices for some of their products this year, and more increases may be on the way for other companies."While many of our franchises have held their prices steady for more than three years, we expect that some may make modest adjustments to coffee prices in their restaurants," said a spokeswoman for Dunkin' Brands Inc., which owns Dunkin' Donuts. The company uses only arabica beans.In December, consistently low supplies of arabica coffee prompted the IntercontinentalExchange Inc. to include arabica beans from Brazil, the world's top producer, on its list of grower nations for the benchmark "C" contract. The deal, one decade in the making, is expected to boost liquidity in the market and will take effect in March 2013.Sugar prices have also seen a dramatic run-up, touching nearly three-decade highs in 2010. The prices are expected to stay strong as India cautiously weighs increasing exports and wet weather hampers the crop out of Australia."We need to look at supply concerns," said Sterling Smith, an analyst with Country Hedging. "That creates a situation of vulnerability in the market."Raw sugar futures gained 19% in 2010, ending the year at 32.12 cents a pound.Cocoa prices saw some gains in December, but haven't risen dramatically despite the ongoing political crisis in top producer Ivory Coast. Many large cocoa companies have said they don't expect the impasse there to affect shipments unless a civil war breaks out. Cocoa futures shed 7.7% this year, ending at $3,035 a ton.NEW YORK—Gold futures finished the year with a 10th consecutive annual gain amid expectations for new record highs next year.The metal closed firmly above the $1,400 mark on the last trading day of 2010 and locked in a 29.7% gain for the year, the largest in three years.The most actively traded contract, for February delivery, settled up 1.1%, or $15.50, at $1,421.40 per troy ounce on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange.Trading volume was low because as many traders took off the week between Christmas and the New Year.The thinly traded contract for gold for January delivery was up 1.1%, or $15.50, at $1,421.10 per troy ounce.A weaker dollar boosted gold prices Friday, as dollar-denominated gold appears cheaper to buyers using foreign currencies when the dollar eases.Currency concerns have been a major factor funneling investment funds towards the yellow metal throughout 2010. Worries about the financial health of some euro-zone nations and large stimulus spending in the U.S. resulted in a particularly volatile year for both the euro and the dollar. That left investors seeking a safe harbor in gold, which is often seen as an alternative currency.Gold also has benefited from global inflation concerns. Chinese investors ramped up their gold purchases throughout 2010 as inflation picked up, even as the government implemented a number of measures to slow economic growth and rein in prices.Meanwhile, fiscal and monetary stimulus in the U.S. prompted many investors to purchase gold to guard against long-term inflation."It seems as if all the drivers for gold are still there and we can certainly look forward to more currency volatility, more political instability and more fiscal irresponsibility," said Frank Lesh, broker and futures analyst at FuturePath Trading.Still, analysts questioned the likelihood that gold will log similar gains in 2010."We're starting the year awfully red hot and coming from a big run-up, so we may need to shake some things up before we move up again," said Sterling Smith, analyst at Country Hedging.Investment demand for gold has slowed as prices rallied to record highs in recent months. The volume of gold held by exchange-traded funds, considered a proxy for investment demand, has risen at a slower pace, though volumes remain near record levels.The largest gold ETF, SPDR Gold Shares, holds 1,280.72 metric tons of the precious metal and is considered the largest private holder of gold.In terms of overall performance, the yellow metal was outshone by its white cousins, palladium and silver, in 2010.Palladium futures capped off the year with a 96.5% gain, reaching a fresh nine-year high, as the recovering automotive sector boosted demand across the world. Palladium is widely used in catalytic converters, which filter exhaust fumes in gasoline engine systems."The U.S. and European car markets have kicked back to normal gear, and all the other parts of the world are coming along," including demand in India and China, said Jon Nadler, senior analyst with Kitco Metals Inc.The most actively traded palladium contract, for March delivery, settled up 2.2%, or $17.10, at $803.30 per troy ounce.Emerging concerns about palladium supply have also lifted prices in recent weeks. The palladium market has long relied on Russian government sales to augment annual production, but those stockpiles are forecast to be near exhaustion."If no shipments of Russian state stocks of palladium take place in 2011, the palladium market could be substantially in deficit," industry consultancy Johnson Matthey said in its 2010 annual review.Silver futures ended the year at a new 30-year high Friday, up 83.7% this year. The metal has gained from spillover investment demand as gold soared outside of some investors' budgets."Given the big demand for gold, silver is going to be a natural benefactor," Mr. Smith said.The most actively traded silver contract, for March delivery, settled up 1.4%, or 42.4 cents, at $30.937 per troy ounce.The contract reached an intraday high of $30.975, the highest price since 1980, when the Hunt brothers of Texas famously attempted to corner the silver market and pushed prices above $40 per troy ounce.Platinum lagged precious metals in 2010, locking in an increase of just 20.9% on the year. The white metal is widely used in catalytic converters for diesel engines, as well as in oil-refining equipment.The most actively traded contract, for April delivery, settled up 1.7%, or $28.90 higher, at $1,778.20 per troy ounce.SEOUL—North Korea's authoritarian regime, in its annual New Year's message, on Saturday underlined its desire to take over South Korea and warned the South's government to stop what it called "north-targeted war moves" and a "smear campaign" against it.Much of the nearly 6,000-word message repeated statements it made last year and in previous years. Most of it focused on a long-promoted drive by the North's government to build a "prosperous nation" by 2012, the 100-year anniversary of the birth of Kim Il Sung, who founded North Korea and was its absolute ruler from 1948 until his death in 1994.Mr. Kim's son, Kim Jong Il, has led North Korea since then and, in late September 2010, tapped his youngest son Kim Jong Eun as his heir apparent, in a sign the family will attempt a third generation of control over the nation of 24 million.As in the 2010 statement, the last 1,500 words or so of the 2011 message was devoted to the decades-long tension between North and South Korea. The Korean peninsula was divided by other countries in the aftermath of World War II. Since then, North Korea's regime has spoken of "reunification" under its totalitarian leadership.South Korea's government, meanwhile, envisions a united Korea with its democratic government in control. The North's government calls that vision "antireunification" and "treachery.""Today there is no more vital task than national reunification for the Korean people," the North's message on Saturday said. "The stand of attaching importance to the nation, the stand toward independent reunification, is the touchstone by which to distinguish patriotism from treachery."The message indirectly referred to North Korea's Nov. 23 attack of a South Korea-controlled island, the first attack by the North on South Korean land since the war of the 1950s. The North in Saturday's message again blamed South Korea's government and "outside forces," a reference to the South's allies the U.S. and Japan, for inciting the attack with "north-targeted war moves.""The danger of war should be removed and peace safeguarded in the Korean peninsula," the message said. That was stronger language than it used in the 2010 New Year's message, when it said, "The way for improving north-south relations should be opened."The 2011 statement went on to outline a number of steps the South's government should take to avoid confrontation, including a halt to weapons purchases and its military alliance with the U.S. "Collaboration with outside forces leads to war and national ruin," the message said. "The entire nation should never tolerate the criminal moves of pro-U.S. war hawks who stake their fate on foreign forces and drive the situation to the brink of war in collusion with them."It called for "active efforts" to "create an atmosphere of dialogue and cooperation" between the two Koreas and said "free travel of and exchanges between people from all walks of life should be ensured."The message also reiterated the North Korean regime's oft-stated themes of independent development, which it puts into practice by limiting freedoms of its citizens, including their ability to travel and obtain information about the outside world while telling them there is no life better that the one they are leading."There are no party and people in the world as great as ours, which have an ever-victorious history and a highly promising future," it said.The New Year's statement is one of the main messages of the year by the North's leadership to its people. It is printed in every major North Korean newspaper and read on state-run broadcasts. Its state news agency distributed the entire message, along with seven separate news stories about it early Saturday.HONOLULU—President Barack Obama is starting the new year with a tone of bipartisanship as he braces for what will likely be a more hostile Congress in 2011.Mr. Obama, speaking at the dawn of 2011 while vacationing in Hawaii with his family, said he sees signs that the economy is gaining traction and reiterated his willingness to accept ideas from anyone, including Republicans, to help the economy pick up speed.In his weekly radio address to the nation, Mr. Obama said "At the start of 2011, we're still just emerging from a once-in-a-lifetime recession that's taken a terrible toll on millions of families."He wished the nation a Happy New Year and said his New Year's resolution is to do everything within his power to create jobs and grow the economy.Mr. Obama has surveyed the coming political environment and said he knows both parties "have a shared responsibility to move this country forward." He added, "Here's what I want you to know: I'm willing to work with anyone of either party who's got a good idea and the commitment to see it through."It remains unclear whether the new year will bring more partisanship. The race for the 2012 presidential election is set to heat up, and some incoming Republicans won on anti-Obama policy platforms.The president said the nation faces serious challenges, from how to keep the U.S. competitive on the world stage to keeping the American dream alive. Other challenges include dealing with the country's ballooning deficit and complex tax code, which many agree needs to be revamped.Mr. Obama has said he wants to tackle the issues and has shown a willingness to reach across party lines. He said if the country can rise to solving its challenges, the U.S. will continue to be "the greatest country in the world."Have you ever been to a "salt room"? Do you even know what a salt room is?If so, you know more than I did when I bought a coupon to visit one from deals site Groupon.com. But that's what Groupon is all about: enticing subscribers to visit local businesses with steeply discounted offers -- 50% to 90% in many cases.The name "Groupon" is a mix of "group" and "coupon." Users purchase a coupon from Groupon.com, but the coupon only becomes valid once a certain number of people have opted in. If the deal doesn't reach the tipping point, which the merchants themselves set, users' credit cards won't be charged. Groupon says that less than 5% of the deals purchased – and 21 million have been purchased in North America alone – don't reach the tipping point.I signed up for Groupon about five months ago, curious about the site because it was getting a lot of buzz. But much like direct mail, Groupon's punch lost its power for me after the first few weeks, with only the occasional appealing deal trickling into my inbox. I've bought two Groupons to date – one for the salt room and one for a salon service.Despite the fact that not all deals will entice everyone, the sign-up and purchasing process was so painless that it's easy to see why 46 million people world-wide have subscribed to the daily email service. Signing up requires little more than an email address and a ZIP code. From there, I began to create my profile, checking off interests like restaurants, groceries, fitness and spa and salon services.Based on your interests, Groupon will email you one personalized daily deal from a business in your neighborhood, as well as other featured deals on the side of the email.Groupon also tracks your shopping history on the site, so if a user has made repeat purchases of a certain kind of Groupon, he or she may receive more in that category. Both of my purchases, for example, fell under the spa and salon services category, so I've noticed many of my Groupon offers are now related to those kinds of services.Users usually have a window of 24 hours to purchase the Groupon, unless the Groupons are all bought up prior to that. When I purchased a Groupon, I simply entered in my credit card number and received an email confirmation. Later on, when enough people had opted in to the deal, I got an email that said the tipping point was reached and my Groupon was ready.One thing to note: It's important to read the fine print on the Groupons, as there may be additional tax on services that isn't reflected in the price of the Groupon.Many businesses don't require a print-out of the Groupon and can look up your name in their own computer systems. But it's a good idea to mention when you first arrive at a business that you'll be using a Groupon.One thing about Groupon bothered me: the daily email coupons crafted by Groupon's hired writers are often cheeky instead of being simply explanatory. The initial description of the salt room, for example, read as follows: "The benefits of salty air were traditionally outweighed by its proximity to pirates and depressing sea shanties concerning mariners' briny socks." The strange humor is an integral part of Groupon and the explanation of the salt room was given later, but that first sentence didn't make me want to read further. The discount was so steep, though, that I was intrigued.And a salt room, as it turns out, is a room made of salt that is said to help with respiratory problems and skin ailments. I probably never would have made an appointment to sit in a room made of salt if I hadn't received the Groupon offer, and I paid $18 dollars for what is normally a $65 dollar service. And that's how Groupon has become a local deals darling.Groupon recently rejected a reported acquisition offer from Google, and the company seems intent on growing its business beyond its current offerings. In addition to its basic service for customers, Groupon has quietly been rolling out Groupon Stores, a self-service platform for businesses to manage their own deal offers, and Deal Feed, which customers can use to access a feed of deals posted by their favorite merchants.So while I'm desperately trying to de-clutter my inbox these days, I'm curious to see where Groupon goes in its next phase, how it continues to grow and what it will have to offer customers. And it's a no-cost service. For now, I'll continue to subscribe – and hopefully will be able to decipher those deal descriptions.FRANKFURT—With Portugal hitting the debt markets for fresh cash next week, the euro zone looks set to start the new year much as it began 2010: under threat from countries with weak economies and shaky public finances.But this time around, the first auctions of the year could be decisive.Despite the Greek and Irish bailouts, 2010 ended with debt-laden euro-zone countries facing escalating borrowing costs. Many fear Portugal will soon need foreign help to stay afloat."This will be a question of make-or-break," said Rene Defossez, a strategist at French bank Natixis. "If the first 2011 issues are completed without too many difficulties, this will bode well for the rest of the year in as much as it would suggest investors have taken on board the risk presented by [countries on the bloc's periphery]."Although these so-called peripheral countries have improved their situation through budget cuts and tax increases, their funding needs remain heavy, because most have a higher amount of debt to pay off in 2011.Natixis expects €824 billion ($1.095 trillion) of euro-zone government bonds to be auctioned in 2011. Some 10% of the planned supply is expected in January, Mr. Defossez said."If yields on issue surge, other countries could be tempted to call on the European Financial Stability Facility, with the obvious risk that this facility will be insufficient to cover the needs of all liquidity-stressed countries," he said. The temporary €440 billion fund was set up by the European Union after the Greek debt crisis and has already been used to help Ireland.Portugal is the biggest question mark right now, and its borrowing costs have been soaring. Yields on its 10-year bonds jumped to 6.682% at the end of 2010, from 4.065% at the end of 2009. By comparison, yields on 10-year German bonds, the de facto euro-zone benchmark, fell to 2.958% from 3.381%.Intesa Sanpaolo's forecast assumes the country will turn to European Union for help in the first quarter. But the bank also thinks no further bailouts will follow."We believe the euro government bond crisis should be overcome without other countries reaching the point of default," Intesa Sanpaolo strategists said. If tensions mount but don't lead to a bailout, the expected trend of euro spreads would not necessarily change a lot, they said.With European leaders still debating how to set up a permanent mechanism for dealing with financial crises, the European Central Bank's intervention operations seemingly remain the only near-term stabilizing factor for the peripheral markets, Nomura said. The bank continues to buy euro-zone sovereign bonds to ease the borrowing costs in struggling countries and contain the crisis."Heading into the new year, it is hard to see this changing," especially with European Union leaders pushing back the final deadline for collective action until March, Nomura said.France will be the first euro-zone country to sell debt in 2011, auctioning €8.5 billion treasury bills Monday, or debt at the shortest end of the yield. Treasury bill supply is also scheduled from Belgium, the Netherlands, and Portugal, which will auction €500 million of six-month T-bills Wednesday.At Portugal's last T-bill sales, held in December, it paid 3.403% for three-month money, or nearly as much as what Germany pays to borrow over 30-years, and 5.281% for 12-month funds.Germany will kick off the bloc's auctions of bonds with medium, long- or ultra-long maturity with a sale of €5 billion of the 2.50% January 2021 bund Wednesday. France will be the week's other bond issuer, on Thursday offering €7.5 billion to €9 billion of three series of OATs, or long-term government bonds, maturing in 2020, 2026 and 2029."Investors will be putting new money to work next week, and dealers are short, so the German and French auctions will go well," a trader said.CVS Caremark Corp. CVS -4.92% agreed to acquire Universal American Corp. 's Medicare Part D prescription drug business for $1.25 billion, a deal that will more than double the size of CVS's share in that program.Universal American's stock jumped 40% to $20.48 in premarket trading, as the company disclosed shareholders would receive about $12.80 to $13 a share in cash after the payment of other transaction-related expenses. CVS's shares were down 0.7% to $34.76.Universal American's Part D business serves about 1.9 million members, while CVS Caremark serves about 1.2 million. Per Lofberg, president of Caremark Pharmacy Services, said the deal further highlights the company's position as "a significant player in one of the nation's fastest-growing segments of the Pharmacy Benefit Management industry."Mr. Lofberg added that a growing portion of the country's population will receive their prescription drug coverage under Medicare plans, citing age demographics and the anticipated shift of retirees from employer-based coverage to Medicare that will likely result from health-care overhaul legislation.As part of the agreement, CVS will acquire all outstanding stock of Universal American and distribute to the company's shareholders 100% of a newly formed public company. That new company will own all other operations of Universal American, including Medicare Advantage and the traditional insurance businesses.In additiont, Universal American holders will receive one share of the new company in exchange for each share of Universal American they now owned. On a pro forma basis using projected year-end numbers, the new company will have about $640 million of cash and statutory capital and no debt.Universal American's Chairman and Chief Executive Richard Barasch said the company would now focus on "overcoming our regulatory challenges and building momentum in the Medicare Advantage business."CVS said the transaction, which is expected to close in the second quarter, will add to earnings per share in the first full year.The pharmacy-benefits management company, which is also the second-biggest U.S. drugstore chain behind Walgreen Co. in November reported third-quarter profit fell 21% on lower revenue as processed claims dropped. The company has been pressured by consumers' reluctance to spend but in the latest period saw improvement at the retail segment.WASHINGTON—Chief Justice John Roberts decried the partisan warfare that has slowed the appointment of federal judges to a crawl, writing in his year-end report Friday that political gamesmanship on Capitol Hill has left some courts burdened with "extraordinary caseloads.""Each political party has found it easy to turn on a dime from decrying to defending the blocking of judicial nominations, depending on their changing political fortunes," the chief justice wrote. He called on Congress and the president "to find a long-term solution to this recurring problem."The chief justice, a 2005 appointee of former President George W. Bush, took no position on any specific nominee, nor did he identify lawmakers by name in the annual report, which customarily includes figures on the court system's workload and a plea for more money.But while styled as a condemnation of both parties, in practical terms the message was a knock against Senate Republicans, who have fought to minimize the imprint President Barack Obama leaves on the federal bench.The Senate confirmed 19 judicial nominees in December, making a total of 62 since Mr. Obama took office, including Supreme Court Justices Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan. At the same point in Mr. Bush's presidency, the Senate had confirmed 100 judicial nominees.Chief Justice John RobertsSenate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D., Vt.) disputed the chief justice's suggestion that Democrats and Republicans had merely reversed roles since Mr. Obama's election."Democrats tried to turn the page on the obstruction of the 1990s when the Democratic majority of the Senate worked to confirm 100 judicial nominees in the first two years of the Bush administration," he said in a statement."In this Congress, Republicans compounded the vacancy crisis by turning away from the Senate's long-held tradition of promptly considering non-controversial nominees, even those supported by Republican home-state senators."The committee's ranking Republican, Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama, could not be reached for comment Friday.For years, both Democrats and Republicans have labeled as extremists judicial nominees picked by the opposing party's president, and they have marshaled reams of statistics intended to demonstrate that they are more fair-minded than their political adversaries when considering judicial candidates.During Mr. Bush's presidency, Democrats' resistance broke only when a bipartisan "Gang of 14" senators cut a deal to approve most of the blocked nominees while letting a few of the most-controversial nominees languish.The chief justice's report cited areas where the court system's case load significantly grew in 2010: nonbusiness bankruptcies, which increased by 14% to about 1.6 million, and fraud cases, up 12% to 9,400.The figures indicated a federal crackdown on immigration violations, with criminal cases, mostly for improper reentry by aliens, up 9% to 28,000. In contrast, federal drug cases dropped 5% to 16,000.The report, as usual, spoke of the need for adequate funding for the court system. "Congress will face extraordinary challenges in addressing the federal deficit," Chief Justice Roberts observed. But whatever happens across the street at the Capitol, "the Supreme Court itself is doing its part," he wrote, and planned to reduce its budget request next year."Not many other federal government entities can say that," he wrote.NEW YORK—The New York Stock Exchange will implement new circuit-breaker collar trigger levels for the first quarter of 2011 starting Monday.Circuit-breaker points represent the thresholds at which trading is halted marketwide for single-day declines in the Dow Jones Industrial Average. Circuit-breaker levels are set quarterly as 10%, 20% and 30% of the DJIA's average closing values of the previous month, rounded to the nearest 50 points.Because the Dow has risen, the adjustments mean that for the first quarter a slightly bigger Dow decline will be needed to shut trading.As established Friday, in the first quarter of 2011, a 1,150-point drop (the 10% threshold) before 2 p.m. EST will trigger a one-hour halt in trading. The level is up from 1,050 in the fourth quarter. The halt is 30 minutes if between 2 p.m. and 2:30 p.m.; and have no effect if at 2:30 p.m. or later unless there is a level-2 halt.A 2,300-point decline (the 20% threshold), up from 2,100 in the fourth quarter, will activate the next trigger—a two-hour halt if it happens before 1 p.m. The halt is one hour if between 1 p.m. and 2 p.m.; and for the remainder of the day if at 2 p.m. or later.A 3,450-point drop (the 30% threshold), up from 3,150, shuts trading for the day.This trading-halt circuit-breaker system has been in place since the aftermath of the 1987 stock-market crash.