Once upon a time, for a very brief time, Geno Auriemma was not simultaneously blessed and burdened by championship expectation and regular-season perfection. A quarter-century ago, long before anyone in Connecticut could fathom Diana Taurasi and Maya Moore, Auriemma set sail in the shallow waters of women’s college basketball with Audrey Epstein and Peggy Walsh.When Walsh now Peggy Myers  was the star forward on Auriemma’s first Connecticut team in 1985-86, about 50 people passed for a crowd at the old campus field house.“That included the parents of the local players, the girls from Connecticut and the people running around on the track above the court,” she said.But one day in 1990, Auriemma stood in an aisle of the gleaming-new Gampel Pavilion and told Myers’s husband, “Someday, I’m going to fill this place.”Norm Myers, who had played football at Connecticut and was often one of the 50 at his future wife’s games, said, “You’re kidding me, right?”During a dynastic run that has produced seven national championships, four undefeated seasons and the 90-game win streak that was snapped Thursday night at Stanford, Auriemma more than delivered on his promise. His program outgrew Gampel’s 10,000-plus capacity and plays its more competitive home games at the larger XL Center in Hartford.None of that seemed likely or even possible when a 31-year-old Auriemma walked into the gym in October 1985 and took inventory of the team he had inherited from Jean Balthaser.“We had been led to believe that they were going to hire a woman,” Peggy Myers said. “But in walks Geno, and I remember thinking, ‘What does this little Italian guy know about basketball?’ We soon found out.”Auriemma had come after serving as an assistant to Debbie Ryan at her budding power at Virginia and arrived at a program that had won 27 games against 57 defeats in the previous three seasons and to players whose work ethic  at least by Auriemma’s standards  was a reflection of their record.“How many times that preseason do you think we heard, ‘Are you freaking kidding me?’ ” said Epstein, a guard on that team who now goes by her married surname, Polinsky. “He probably threw us out of practice more than we practiced.”Yes, she testified, young Geno was every bit as brash, driven and demanding as the 56-year-old version already enshrined in the Naismith Hall of Fame in Springfield, Mass.“But to me, he was a breath of fresh air,” Polinsky said. “He had us riled up to the point where it was crazy. We had a practice once where I went after the ball and wound up jumping over the benches and falling over on my back.”Living one flight up in a campus dormitory, Myers took to riding the elevator after practice and sleeping on the floor rather than climb into her upper bunk. “That’s how sore I was,” she said.Myers, Polinsky and Diane Poletti (now Poletti-Metzel) were the seniors on Auriemma’s first team. He made them the captains, with the responsibility of meeting with him after he threw everyone out of the gym.“The years before that, we were out there because we just wanted to play,” Poletti-Metzel said. “None of us had ever experienced that kind of intensity.”That season, the Huskies’ schedule was a manifestation of modest ambitions. Their out-of-conference road games were at Long Island University and Iona. Nonconference home games included clashes with Marist, Hartford and Georgia State.In retrospect, the seven victories they opened the season with were a pittance compared what would become routine. But as Myers said, “We thought we were hot stuff there for a while  at least until the Big East games.”The Huskies’ 4-12 conference record cost them a winning season  the only time in 25 years that an Auriemma team would finish under .500 over all (12-15) or in a league in which the Huskies have finished first in 19 of the past 22 seasons.It is not the distinction for which the captains prefer to be remembered, but apparently Auriemma, most of all, does not consider them losers.In his 2006 book, “Geno: In Pursuit of Perfection,” he called his ’85-86 players “the kind of kids you would recruit to a school that has a lousy record with no facilities and what appears to be no commitment from the university.”But he cited Myers as a ferocious game competitor whose 25 rebounds against Pittsburgh that season remain a team record, and Polinsky as a brainy 5-foot-8 overachiever. Victories over Syracuse and Massachusetts, Auriemma added, were “the closest I ever get to being really satisfied as a coach.”He added: “We win some games we have no business winning. That never happens anymore.”Polinsky took issue with Auriemma’s assertion in the book that there were no Division-I caliber players on their team.Arnold Hans Weiss, who fled to the United States from Nazi Germany as a 13-year-old and returned as an American soldier during World War II, becoming a principal in the investigation that led to the discovery of Hitler’s last will and political testament, died Dec. 7 in Rockville, Md. He was 86 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md.The cause was pneumonia, said his son Daniel.Mr. Weiss, who became a successful lawyer and banker, was just 21 at the close of the war in 1945. That fall, he was stationed in Munich as an officer in the United States Army’s Counter-Intelligence Corps.Hitler had killed himself in his Berlin bunker in April, but rumors of his survival were rampant, and Mr. Weiss’s unit was charged with finding definitive proof of his death. His job was tracking down high-ranking Nazi officials who might have been with Hitler in his last days.He found Wilhelm Zander, chief aide to Martin Bormann, the Nazi Party official who had controlled access to Hitler.The story of his pursuit of Mr. Zander, which Mr. Weiss described in an article in The Washington Post Magazine in 2005 and which has been written piecemeal with some varying details in several books, was the stuff of a suspense film.Working with Hugh Trevor-Roper, the British intelligence officer and historian who wrote “The Last Days of Hitler,” and another American agent named Rosener, Mr. Weiss pressured Mr. Zander’s family members, whom he found in the telephone book, and a girlfriend to gain the information that led to a Bavarian farmhouse where Mr. Zander was posing as a gardener.Mr. Weiss took part, largely as a translator, in the interrogation of Mr. Zander, who initially claimed to be a victim of misidentification but who finally declared: “You are correct. I am SS Standartenführer Wilhelm Zander.” He proceeded to talk for hours about what went on in the bunker during Hitler’s last days and what became of other Nazi leaders.Finally, Mr. Weiss asked Mr. Zander why he had left the bunker, and Mr. Zander said he had been sent on a courier’s mission. He added, “I suppose you want the documents.”The documents, finally recovered in the hidden compartment of a suitcase thrown in a dry well, were Hitler’s will and political testament, along with the certificate of his deathbed marriage to Eva Braun. Later authenticated and used as evidence in the Nuremberg trials, Hitler’s will bequeathed most of his belongings to the Nazi Party and named Mr. Bormann as his executor.The political testament was a defiantly unrepentant declaration that it was not he but Jews and their supporters who were responsible for the war. He predicted a glorious future for the Third Reich and concluded, chillingly, “Above all I charge the leaders of the nation and those under them to scrupulous observance of the laws of race and to merciless opposition to the universal poisoner of all peoples, international Jewry.”Whether Mr. Weiss was the first to read the documents, as he claimed, is uncertain. Mr. Trevor-Roper’s book makes no mention of him, and other histories tell slightly altered versions of the event. In addition, “Hitler’s Will,” a 2009 memoir by a former British soldier, Herman Rothman, said that a copy of the documents was discovered under entirely different circumstances two months earlier, and that he was their initial translator.Nonetheless Mr. Weiss’s role in the capture of Mr. Zander and the recovery of the documents seems incontrovertible. In a letter awarding him an Army Commendation Ribbon for service performed Dec. 24 to 28 in 1945, Brig. Gen. Edwin L. Silbert wrote, “When called upon in an emergency you assumed the responsibility of apprehending a personality high in the annals of the Nazi system.”Hans Arnold Wangersheim was born in Nuremberg on July 25, 1924. His parents divorced when he was 6, and he was placed in a Jewish orphanage, where he lived until he was 13. His grandmother died at Auschwitz. His mother and sisters escaped from Germany on their own and eventually made it to the United States. His father later spent time in Dachau and eventually lived out his life in Brazil, though father and son never met again.Young Hans was sent to the United States by a Jewish social services organization, and he was ultimately placed with a family that owned a jewelry store in Janesville, Wis. He began studying at the University of Wisconsin before joining the Army. He borrowed the name Weiss from a Wisconsin football star.In the Army, Mr. Weiss trained as a tail gunner until a crash landing broke both his legs. During his recuperation, because of his German language skills, he was recruited by the Office of Strategic Services, the World War II intelligence service, before joining the Counter-Intelligence Corps.Mr. Weiss married Artemis Lychos in 1956; she died in 2005. In addition to his son Daniel, who lives in North Bethesda, Md., he is survived by another son, Andrew, also of North Bethesda, and three grandchildren.Mr. Weiss studied economics and politics at Wisconsin, then earned a law degree there. He later worked as a lawyer for the Treasury Department, helped start the Inter-American Development Bank and became senior vice president and general counsel for Emerging Markets Partnership, an international private equity firm based in Washington that specializes in infrastructure projects in developing countries.It was a career, he said in an interview last year with the Wisconsin Alumni Association, that his war experience pointed him toward.“I decided I wanted to build rather than destroy,” he said. “In Belgium, Luxembourg, France, Germany, there was so much destruction. I knew there was a better way of doing things.”The Giants tried to strike all the right notes last week as they talked about playing a game Sunday against the Washington Redskins that they could be proud of, a game to drown out the dissonance of the last two weeks. On Friday, when he was asked if he had discussed his job status with his players, Tom Coughlin said the only thing a sensible coach could say: it was not about him.The end of the Giants’ season is about many things  Michael Vick perhaps one of the biggest  but Coughlin at least wants to frame this finale, if that is what it will be, properly.“I didn’t try to put it in the rearview mirror,” Coughlin said earlier in the week. “I talked more about different spots during the season where we discussed the fact that our off-season was pointed in a particular direction and we wanted to re-establish ourselves, our pride, our honor, which we didn’t do last weekend, so therefore we have one game in order to do that.”That is the rallying cry for the Giants (9-6) as their season slips away, with only long shots left to save them. But the only voice that matters right now for Coughlin has been quiet for almost two weeks, ever since John Mara, the Giants’ president, spit out a definitive “ridiculous” when The Daily News asked in the moments after the cave-in to the Eagles if he was considering firing Coughlin and hiring Bill Cowher.Mara declined interview requests last week. But he will not fire Coughlin, win or lose Sunday, unless the Giants’ performance is so unfathomably embarrassing that it would prompt Mara to rethink Coughlin’s future.This has been the oddest of Giants seasons, with an emboldening midseason run bookended by disasters that have generated that rare twin bill, even for New York sports: two calls for Coughlin’s head in a four-month stretch. That chatter came from the outside last week, in the frantic phone calls of fans to talk shows, in the bubbling-over analysis of commentators, leading to the sense that the Giants must win Sunday to save Coughlin’s job, a twist on the win-and-you’re-in math they were working on just a week ago.But Mara provided the best window into what to expect from him at the end of last season, after two dispiriting losses facilitated by an injury-decimated roster but marked by a troubling lack of effort. Mara unleashed a fury rarely seen from him in public the day after the 2009 season ended. He put the entire franchise on notice with the declaration that he was “disappointed in everything.”“I’m unhappy at everybody,” he said.That rant was evoked frequently last week, as those who follow the Giants tried to gauge Mara’s anger over a second straight late collapse.Just a few moments after his ’09 remark, though, Mara added something as illuminating, if not as catchy: “I’m less than 24 hours after the end of the season. So I’m sure I’ll cool down at some point and will try to make intelligent decisions going forward.”The Giants simply do not do knee-jerk. They do not fire 9-win  or perhaps 10-win  coaches. They do not issue statements of support, only to retract them a few hours later, as happened with the Denver Broncos this season. They do not operate a coaching carousel, as they do in Washington, with the circus music on a loop. And most critical to the current crisis, they do not conflate what happened to them last year with what is happening now.The Giants have not given up this season  they rallied from a 14-0 deficit in Green Bay before Aaron Rodgers overwhelmed them  but they have been outplayed by two quarterbacks at the top of their games, while their own quarterback has made unimaginable errors. It is a bitter way to watch a playoff berth slip away, if that is how it ends. But is it enough to blow up the foundation of a winning team? Not when the only thing that is demonstrably a coach’s fault is failing to have the Giants prepared for the critical onside kick the Eagles successfully executed during their 21-point comeback.N.F.L. coaches are fired for a lot of reasons: their players no longer respond to them, their behavior embarrasses the franchise, their owners want to energize the public so they will get a new stadium, they refuse to make changes, they fail to win the biggest games.Coughlin fits into none of those categories.Still, Giants fans have expressed their displeasure, and they are not alone in letting their frustration leak out. Steelers fans repeatedly demanded Cowher’s ouster during his 15-year tenure in Pittsburgh, especially when the Steelers had two straight losing seasons, then missed the playoffs again in a third. The Rooney family left Cowher in place, and he rewarded it with a Super Bowl title.Mara was asked if he would resurrect one of his most damning critiques, when he said that the Giants were a “franchise in trouble” at the end of the Jim Fassel era in 2003. That team lacked discipline, and went from preseason Super Bowl favorites to 4-12. Mara would not even compare last season’s meltdown with that embarrassment. This season is nowhere close to requiring the wholesale reimagining that was needed then.The Giants are surely in for some changes, perhaps significant ones. Six of their nine victories are against teams that are certain to not make the playoffs, and four of their six losses are against teams that are in the playoffs (the Eagles) or have a good chance at clinching a berth Sunday (the Colts and Packers), suggesting that perhaps their roster is not as talented as they thought.Eli Manning has struggled throughout, throwing 24 interceptions, part of a league-leading 41 turnovers by the Giants. He is not going anywhere, so he must be fixed.And questions remain about the strength of the leadership in the locker room. Justin Tuck and Manning took steps into that role this season, but it does not come naturally to either of them. When Manning spoke to the team for the first time before the Packers game, his play did not back up his message.But tinkering, not TNT, is what saved the Giants the last time there was an outcry for Coughlin to be fired. After the 2006 season, with players complaining about Coughlin, Mara told him he had to change his personal style. Coughlin did so, and at a stage in his career when he could have easily declined.About a year later, Mara did not wait to calm down before he made another statement. With a smiling Coughlin standing beside him, Mara declared the Super Bowl the Giants had just won the greatest victory in the franchise’s history.To the Editor:Re “How Superstars’ Pay Stifles Everyone Else” (Dec. 26), which described how salaries at the very top of the scale  whether in business or in sports  have soared in comparison with those in the rest of the range.In the late 1980’s, when salaries of sports figures were escalating outrageously, with athletes going to the highest bidder, I lost my taste for professional sports  particularly basketball, football and baseball. Although the trend benefited players and agents, it left a bitter taste in the mouths of longtime fans.Walking away from an interest in sports is relatively simple, yet it’s not so easy to walk away from businesses that pay outrageous salaries to their chief executives but whose products are necessary to our daily lives.Hopefully, company stockholders  as well as sports fans  will no longer support a superstar system with its outrageous salaries and perks. Nelson MaransTo the Editor:“Stimulus, Without More Debt” (Economic View, Dec. 26) proposes a notion called the “balanced-budget multiplier theorem” to justify new stimulus spending. The theorem suggests bolstering the economy without aggravating the deficit by raising taxes in the exact amount of new stimulus spending.So let me get this straight: Just cover the new spending with taxes, and the effect is all positive for the economy? But where does the tax money come from? Oh, right: Taxes take money from the private economy, where people spend the way they want to, and direct it to the government. When the government spends the same amount as the private sector would have, we get a stimulus.Well, great! If that works, why not increase taxes to 100 percent of income, and let the government spend it all? Imagine the stimulus!Peter CoffeyFLORHAM PARK, N.J.  Near the end of his fourth and longest season, Darrelle Revis feels older than 25. He is back in the Pro Bowl, back in the playoffs, back rendering receivers invisible at cornerback for the Jets. To that end, life has returned to normal.But Revis and those close to him think the events of this season changed him, added maturity, perspective, growth.From his prolonged training camp holdout to the worst hamstring injury he ever sustained to the regular-season finale Sunday against Buffalo where he could rest, Revis looks forward to 2011. Because 2010 was rough.“This feels like a lifetime, all the stuff that happened in the last six months,” he said recently. “This year was the worst. Nothing’s going to top this.”Last month, Revis finished the installation of a recording studio in his New Jersey home. He filmed a Google commercial with Knicks forward Amar’e Stoudemire in which Revis dunked on Stoudemire. He has endorsement deals with Google, Nike, Motorola and Range Rover. His face graced billboards in San Francisco and Times Square. He owns a T-shirt company.This is all part of a detailed plan developed by his inner circle when Revis starred at the University of Pittsburgh and implemented when he turned professional a year early. But lately, Revis has taken a greater interest in his business affairs, part of his personal renovation, the growth spurred by two unlikely events: the holdout and the hamstring.“Truly, it has changed him, the way he acts, the way he looks at life,” said Diana Gilbert, Revis’s mother. “I see a whole different person this year.”The low point? Pretty much all of August. Revis described that month as a whirlwind. His body sensed it needed to be somewhere, at training camp, on practice fields. Instead, he worked out and watched movies and played catch with a football in his pool.Revis never once spoke publicly during his holdout, even when negotiations turned acrimonious. An uncle, the longtime N.F.L. defensive end Sean Gilbert, said last week that “the situation got a little bit out of hand.” Revis heard all of it, the Me-vis nickname, those who labeled him greedy, selfish. At one point, his mother looked into his eyes and thought: “Oh, no. He can’t take it.”Revis reached a resolution shortly before the season started on a four-year deal worth $46 million, $32 million guaranteed. He arrived to a hero’s welcome, captured by HBO’s cameras as he walked slowly onto the practice field.Two weeks into the season, he pulled his hamstring against New England. He struggled with the same injury throughout college, but never to this degree. He missed two games, but in hindsight said that he should have sat out more.Looking back, Revis said he would not change anything. He said he represented his family well. He learned not to read news reports or watch television. He learned that the public would recognize him even wearing an Afro-style wig. He learned how quickly perceptions shifted. He learned patience.From such struggle came change not even Revis had anticipated. Diana Gilbert said her son stopped going to nightclubs, asked more questions about his finances, tightened his inner circle. He spent more time with his two children, more time planning his future.“Darrelle has matured,” Sean Gilbert said. “It’s like he’s smelling the air for the first time. I always told him, don’t live in a surreal world. Smell the air. Feel what’s going on. Know what’s happening to you and around you. Then do something about it.”At present, Revis’s closest confidants include his mother, his uncle (Sean), his agents (Neil Schwartz and Jonathan Feinsod), his best friend (John Geiger) and another uncle (Mark). Each serves a specific role in what is essentially the Darrelle Revis Corporation.Mark understands the stock market and works on the finances. Geiger handles the bulk of myriad requests. The agents have turned down more than 100 potential business deals, focusing on the quality of their partnerships.Offers and proposals (some marriage, some business) arrive six times each month, or more often. Diana Gilbert said the family sometimes sat around and laughed at the contents. Asked for an example, she said one prospective company wanted Revis to invest $500,000, for which he would have owned nothing, not even 1 percent.ImageSean Gilbert said the circle functioned in large part to dissolve perception, to balance what is real and what is not. But Revis gives more input lately.For example, even though Gilbert also works in music production, Revis and Geiger built the home studio without his help. Gilbert was leery until he saw the finished product, which was top of the line and not overly outfitted with unnecessary and expensive equipment. And Gilbert said Revis did not pay “athlete’s dollars” for the project. That is the “heightened attention to detail” Gilbert sees.“No doubt, Darrelle Revis is a $100 million corporation,” Feinsod said. “He has to be handled as such. His mom, his uncle, the plan, it all came together, and it all starts with Darrelle, on the football field.”Revis and his uncle speak regularly, by phone, and Sean Gilbert remains both his biggest critic and his biggest fan. When Coach Rex Ryan last year labeled Revis’s 2009 effort among the best in a single season for a cornerback, Gilbert warned Revis of football’s “ebb and flow,” that “it’s not like, wow, look at you, every season.”More recently, Gilbert called to congratulate Revis on his Pro Bowl nod, then started on a critique of recent games. Gilbert said he ended with, “You can’t possibly think you’re playing good football.”Revis does not have the statistics he compiled last season. His tackles (54 to 32), interceptions (6 to 0) and passes broken up (31 to 10) all dropped significantly. But teams have also changed their tactics, avoiding not only Revis but his side of the field. He chooses to view this as a sign of respect, even if it sometimes bores him.The turning point came in early November at Detroit. With his hamstring healed, Revis was assigned to Calvin Johnson, one of the N.F.L.’s top receivers. Johnson caught one pass for 13 yards, his lowest output of the season.As the calendar turned to 2011, Revis wanted to put the previous year behind him. Ten years from now, he hoped to be looking back on his roughest season, on the hamstring and the holdout, as the impetus for growth.Perhaps 2010, for all its frustration, will be the year Revis became the man he wanted to become.“Whatever happens in the future won’t erase this year,” he said. “I’ll always remember what happened. The holdout. The hamstring. The adversity. It was a weird season.”“IF I hear of something, I’ll let you know.”Jobless people often hear this from friends and relatives, because the impulse to help is strong. But there is much more that people can do to help those who have been sidelined by the economic crisis. And there are things they can unwittingly do to make them feel worse.First, when listening to unemployed friends or relatives, recognize that they have experienced a profound loss, said Nancy Molitor, a public education coordinator for the American Psychological Association and a psychologist in private practice in Wilmette, Ill.But go easy on the pity. “No one wants to feel like they’re a victim on a regular basis,” Dr. Molitor said. When you continually show pity for a jobless person, “you’re putting yourself in the strong position, and the other person feels weaker and weaker,” she said.Asking questions like “Have you sent out any more résumés?” or “Have you called any more people?” is also counterproductive, Dr. Molitor said. Expressing worry is a way for friends or family members to deal with their own anxiety over the situation, she noted, but it often serves to transfer anxiety to the jobless person.And most people do want another job and are making good faith efforts to find one, she added.Serve as a sounding board, while refraining from judgments or criticism, said Alison Doyle, a job search specialist for About.com, which is owned by The New York Times Company.The jobless  and especially the long-term jobless  are afraid of being seen as slackers, Ms. Doyle said. Too often, she said, friends and family think they could find a job if they just tried hard enough.But the unemployed are facing unusually harsh economic conditions. Of the 15 million Americans out of work, more than 40 percent have been unemployed for six months or more.The unemployed don’t operate on a seniority system, where the people who have been jobless the longest are the first up for new jobs. The sad fact is that someone who has been out of work for just a few months may look more desirable to a hiring manager than the person who was laid off at the height of the economic crisis, Ms. Doyle said.Older job seekers can face especially high hurdles, said Ford R. Myers, a career coach, author and the president of Career Potential in the Philadelphia area. Some had been working steadily for 20 or 30 years before they were let go; they are unfamiliar with the newer ways of looking for jobs and facing age discrimination for the first time in their lives, he said.Whatever their age, many people who have been laid off are struggling financially. It’s possible that someone who appears to be doing fine is actually running out of savings and on the verge of foreclosure.“Most people, if they’ve been unemployed for more than a couple of months, can use your help if you can afford to give it to them,” Ms. Doyle said.But tread carefully when offering a loan or gift. Some people are embarrassed by financial woes, Ms. Doyle said. She said she and her friends once chipped in to buy a supermarket gift card for an out-of-work friend and sent it anonymously because they knew the woman wouldn’t accept it otherwise.Keep your eyes open for short-term work for unemployed friends or relatives. Projects in their field would be ideal, of course. But you could even pay a job seeker to take care of your pet when you’re away, Ms. Doyle said.If you’re not sure what kind of work someone is willing to do, ask questions very delicately, because the line between helping and offending can be fine. One person may be delighted to earn a little extra money by shoveling your driveway, whereas someone else may be insulted, Ms. Doyle said.You can also help in many other ways. For example, offer to proofread a résumé and cover letters, Ms. Doyle said. See if there are job openings at your own company  you may even get a referral bonus. If you have worked with the person previously, you can write a recommendation for him or her on LinkedIn, she added.For those with young children, offer to baby-sit during job interviews if you can, Ms. Doyle said  or drive them to interviews if they don’t have their own transportation. These seemingly small actions speak volumes about your feelings for a loved one.BOTH through their deeds and words, “close friends can do an awful lot,” Dr. Molitor said.“When you go through something like this, you find out who your good friends are,” she said. Sometimes, the people you thought were your friends stop calling because you can’t maintain the same lifestyle, she added.Jobless friends don’t have the plague, Dr. Molitor said. “Include them in your life just like you normally would,” she said, “but be sensitive about expenses when you go out together.”And close friends and family should be aware that unemployed people  especially those out of work for an extended period  can be at high risk for depression, she said. If, over two weeks or more, they are isolating themselves and continually expressing negative and self-defeating thoughts, it may be time to refer them to a mental health professional, she said.Phil Jackson has been here before. Twice, in fact, with entirely different results.In his first finale, 13 years ago, Jackson’s Chicago Bulls had just won the last of their six championships. Michael Jordan retired, at least for a while, Scottie Pippen left and Jackson rode off into the Montana sunset.“It’s the right time,” Jackson said.The right time to return came a year later, with the Los Angeles Lakers. The second finale  the one in which Jackson eventually wrote a book titled “The Last Season: A Team in Search of Its Soul”  came after the Lakers flamed against the Detroit Pistons in the 2004 N.B.A. finals, engulfed by a tussle for control between Kobe Bryant and Shaquille O’Neal.Jackson again took a year off and then returned. And after last season, the Lakers’ 2nd straight championship and his 11th over all, Jackson deliberated one more time. In a statement that he would keep coaching, he said, “It’ll be the last stand for me, and I hope a grand one.”If this is indeed the final finale for Jackson, the real last one, it has gotten off to an interesting start. The Lakers are 23-10 and comfortably ahead in the Pacific Division, but they were hammered on national television by the Miami Heat on Christmas Day and are not intimidating anyone these days.In no particular order, Bryant is taking too many shots, Pau Gasol is not taking enough, Ron Artest is his erratic self, Derek Fisher is sometimes ineffective, and Andrew Bynum is still trying to put chronic injury issues behind him. The Lakers are aging. Their competitors are better, deeper and hungrier.Some of the same issues converged on the Lakers the past two seasons, but Jackson coaxed and coached, Bryant bullied teammates into shape and brushed past opponents, and gold confetti ultimately dropped from the Staples Center rafters.And although there are few doubts that the Lakers are capable of raising the level of their play, this season could be different from the previous two. Dallas and San Antonio are deeper and have added length, and Oklahoma City continues its ascension.Going into Saturday’s games, the Lakers were third in the Western Conference. Since trading for Gasol in 2008, the Lakers have spent precious few days away from the conference’s top spot. This season is different.“I think it’s way too early to know how open it is,” said R. C. Buford, San Antonio’s general manager, as he surveyed the Western Conference. “The Lakers are still champs and have been the last two years. Until somebody beats them, who knows if it’s open or not?”The Lakers started the season by reeling off eight straight victories on their way to a 13-2 start. They then lost four straight games for the first time since April 2007. Then came the trouncing by Miami and a one-sided loss to the Spurs in San Antonio.Most troubling is that the Lakers, helped by an easy schedule to begin the season, are under .500 against teams that would currently qualify for the playoffs.The loss last week in San Antonio showcased the problems. Bryant started decently and hit four of his first five shots. He kept shooting. At one point, he missed 13 shots in a row and he finished 8 for 27. Gasol went the second half without converting a field goal.The Spurs handled the Lakers despite little production from Tim Duncan and Manu Ginobili, who combined to shoot 4 for 19.Artest suffered through a miserable December, averaging a mere 6 points through Thursday. Bynum’s delayed start to the season caused Gasol to suffer from playing too many minutes at center. Shannon Brown and Steve Blake, who each started superbly, turned erratic.After the loss in San Antonio, Jackson called a team meeting. Back in November, when the Lakers lost to the Grizzlies in Memphis, Bryant told reporters, “We’re not going to have a team meeting or anything like that, but we need to focus.” That was then.Bryant’s current agitation is measured in expletives and then in silence. He recently shunned reporters for four days before revealing his frustration.At 32, he is averaging about 33 minutes a game, the lowest since his second season in the league. He is also attempting about two fewer shots a game than last season in Jackson’s attempt to preserve his legs with so much of the season, and all of the postseason, still to come.But with the Spurs and the Mavericks owning the best records in the West, there is already the danger that the Lakers would have to go through both in the playoffs in their bid for a third straight championship.“This isn’t going to be easy,” Bryant recently told ESPN. “If it was easy to three-peat, you’d see a lot of teams do it in the past. That’s why so few teams have been able to do it.”The Lakers blew past the Hornets in New Orleans on Wednesday, one day after losing to the Spurs. That ended a three-game losing streak. Jackson shifted Bynum to a starter’s role and pushed Lamar Odom back to the bench. Both excelled in their old roles. Bynum had 18 points in only his eighth game of the season. Odom steadied the second unit with a game-high 24 points.Bryant even cracked a few smiles from the bench. And as the Spurs’ Buford said, it is early. But not too early for the Lakers to look threatened, and for Jackson to contemplate the challenge that his latest last stand has become.Yes, I know we had a big goodbye just a week ago, with Jim Horne heading off into the sunset. But that went so well, here’s part 2.It’s been a pleasure and an honor to be a part of Wordplay for the past 14 months, and a big part of that was thanks to you. You make this a very pleasant place to visit — intelligent, funny and civilized. Half of my job was trying to find ways of adding to that; the other half, to stay out of the way.The comments here are a daily stew of thoughts, reactions, praise, grumblings, asides, questions, answers, revelations and laughs. And those represent just the tip of the iceberg; for every comment that’s posted, there are many more readers thinking the same thing. Another thanks to all the loyal lurkers who stop by here every day, from every part of the world (including the 12 of you in Ljubljana).I can’t think of a classier or brighter guy than Jim Horne. His insights and analyses were always smart, remarkably varied, funny and even poetic at times. It was a privilege to be sharing this job with him.Aimée and Justin, the two Times editors who looked over every one of our posts, were a delight to work with. I still haven’t met them, but I hope to change that soon. I have met their boss Kathleen McElroy, a wonderful woman who oversees all the blogs at The Times, a feat in itself.Robert Samuels, on the business and logistical end, has been terrific to work with. Other “friends of the puzzle” include the indispensable Ellen Ripstein, Cindy Day, Keith Dixon, Miki Meek and Cheryl Berman.A huge thanks to Will Shortz, both for the terrific puzzles he brings us every day and for the time he graciously gave whenever I had a question for a post. And an equally huge thanks to all the constructors who lavish us daily with their clever offerings (and sometimes stop by here).I’d also like to say how nice it was to share the same wedge of cyberspace with Pradeep Mutalik and Gary Antonick, who greatly increased the level of intelligence and creativity around here with their weekly Numberplay posts.Although I’m stepping down from my role here, I’ll likely be roaming the Wordplay halls, and there might be an occasional Ashen & Noir cartoon in your future.Maybe I’ll even write a puzzle or two.P.S. My annual calendar is now out, featuring a guest appearance (more like a takeover) by Ashen and Noir. You can download a free PDF from my personal blog by clicking here.I WAS 2 when my father left the Air Force and got a job in the electronics industry. We moved six times, to wherever company plants were being built. I enjoyed moving. I was interested in different cultures, and I learned to read people quickly.My parents and my three younger siblings relocated from California to Hong Kong when I was a senior in high school, but I stayed behind to finish high school and start college. Phone calls were expensive, so my mother would write me letters on thin blue air-mail stationery that would arrive four weeks later.In high school, I sang a cappella in a madrigal choir. We appeared at different events around California, like the opening of what was then the Sumitomo Bank. Van Morrison was at one, and he invited us to sing backup on a song of his.That year, I auditioned for the music school at Indiana University and was accepted as a piano major. Freshman year was difficult without my family, but my parents figured I’d be O.K. because my grandmother lived nearby. She was a strong woman who worked hard, sang hymns in the morning and made me believe I could do anything I wanted.Studying piano was lonely. The practice room was the size of a small walk-in closet, and I practiced for eight hours a day. I’m an extrovert, so it didn’t fit my personality. That summer, I went to Hong Kong to spend time with my parents. My dad took me on business trips to plants in South Korea and Japan. I realized I was attracted to leadership and global business and decided to focus my studies on international business. I went back to I.U., enrolled in a joint B.S.-M.B.A. program and, at 22, graduated with both degrees.My single most formative job was probably my first one out of college, in brand management at Procter & Gamble in 1978. The company invested in its leaders and taught them what “good” looks like, whether that’s how to run a meeting, communicate effectively, present yourself or analyze a business situation. That job was a rigorous foundation.Working for RJR Nabisco from 1984 to 1992 was another defining experience. I became a vice president at 32 and a general manager running the Lifesavers division at 35. It was a tumultuous time during the Kohlberg Kravis Roberts leveraged buyout. I kept my head down, worked like a dog and kept getting promoted. I also learned that you do not go to the water cooler and take part in the gossip and the drama.I also learned a lot working as a vice president for Tom Monaghan, founder of Domino’s Pizza. I’ve tried to emulate his zeal for operational excellence in the restaurant business as well as his emphasis on character. I joined Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen in 2007. I have a dual role, as C.E.O. of AFC Enterprises, Popeyes’ parent company. People are surprised to learn that Popeyes is in 44 states and 26 countries. We’re well suited for international expansion because the recipes for our Louisiana dishes come from Native Americans as well as from Africa, the Caribbean and several other areas.We operate 37 restaurants ourselves but have franchised more than 1,900. I’m a fact-based leader. When I accepted this job, I started to measure our franchisees’ performance  speed of service, profitability and so forth. Some owners, like Harry Stafford, who’s in his 70s and owns a Popeyes in Texas, may have been skeptical but were willing to work with our new team. Harry was competitive and determined to excel. Now he’s one of our top performers. He brings me his scorecard and brags about how well he’s done. At his age, he’s more excited and engaged than ever. I think that’s cool. Now he wants to build more Popeyes for his son to inherit.