Officials at the Los Angeles Police Department said New Year's Eve brought seven more fires to a string of suspected arson cases in the greater Los Angeles area, bringing the total number to 39, and said residents should prepare for more.In a briefing Sunday morning, the officials said they continue to look for suspects behind the blazes, which have damaged buildings and destroyed at least 30 automobiles. The officials declined to comment on specifics of their investigation.In the meantime, residents in the Los Angeles area should lock their cars at night and keep lights on in parking areas and porches, Los Angeles Police Department Cmdr. Andrew Smith said at the briefing.The new blazes continued a string of fires that started on Thursday morning. The nighttime fires, many of which were started in parked cars, have dotted the Los Angeles area, with many concentrated around Hollywood, but extending into the San Fernando Valley to the north.No civilians have been injured in the blazes, some of which have been caught on video that has been shown on local newscasts. One firefighter was injured extinguishing a blaze on Friday.One fire in the Hollywood Hills damaged a former home of Jim Morrison, lead singer of the 1960s band, the Doors. At least three fires were also reported on Thursday, although it was unclear whether they were related to the Friday and Saturday fires.Authorities said that it was unclear whether the fires were set by one person or a group of people working together, or were the work of copycats.New Year's Eve brought police and fire trucks into neighborhoods throughout the city. Authorities said they responded to two car fires in West Hollywood and five fires in the city of Los Angeles.One fire, in the early evening Saturday, struck a large parking structure in the Hollywood tourist area near the Kodak Theater. Video of the fire taken by a bystander and posted on the web showed a Chevrolet Camaro burning in the garage.Authorities have offered no theories as to a possible motive for the blazes, most of which began in cars parked underneath buildings and spread to neighboring structures. They say garden-style, or low-rise, apartments have been targeted.The Los Angeles Times reported earlier that authorities were looking for a man driving a white-and-tan mid-1990s Lexus ES300 vehicle in connection with the events.On Sunday, Mr. Smith, the LAPD commander, said that "we're still working on those" descriptions of a suspicious vehicle. He and other officials declined to elaborate.Local authorities said they are working with federal authorities to investigate the blazes. Authorities are offering rewards totaling $60,000 for information leading the arrest and conviction of a suspect or suspects.The string of blazes follow the arrest on Thursday of two people suspected of lighting similar fires in the famous Hollywood and North Hollywood areas. One suspect has been identified as 22-year old Samuel Arrington of Sunland, Calif. The second suspect has yet to be identified. Both suspects are currently still in custody. Efforts to identify Mr. Arrington's lawyer have been unsuccessful.Authorities said they were investigating any potential links between the incidents, as well as if the additional blazes were set by accomplices of the current suspects in custody.HONOLULU—President Barack Obama heads into 2012 with a legislative agenda that essentially consists of just a single item—a long-term extension of a payroll tax holiday—deferring a fight over deficit reduction and the Bush-era tax cuts and all but giving up on the remaining components of his jobs bill as he pivots to an election-year strategy of attacking Congress.White House spokesman Josh Earnest said extending the payroll tax break through next year, a fight that will consume Congress after lawmakers return to Washington in January, is "the last must-do item of business on the president's congressional agenda.""There are certainly other things that the president would like to do," Mr. Earnest said, adding that Mr. Obama will continue to prod Congress to pass some of his jobs proposals. "But in terms of essential, must-do items, the payroll-tax-cut extension is the last one."Mr. Obama will also step up his use of his executive authority in the New Year, Mr. Earnest said, by announcing at least several new economic initiatives each week.The president's central focus after he returns to Washington next week from a vacation in Hawaii will be on the payroll-tax cut, which has become a catalyst for his 2012 political message.The tax break for 160 million workers was set to expire at the end of the year before Congress extended it in December for two months. Mr. Obama called for a year-long extension as part of the $447 billion jobs bill he unveiled in September and spent the month before Christmas pressuring congressional Republicans to pass it.Many conservative House Republicans opposed the extension on policy grounds, but the GOP leadership saw it as inevitable and tried to use the opportunity to force the White House to swallow policy items favored by Republicans, such as the construction of the Keystone XL oil pipeline from Canada to the Gulf Coast. Once the parties could not resolve differences over how to pay for the tax break, the Senate agreed to the two-month extension, catching rank-and-file House members off guard and setting them up to be the obstacle to the tax cut, a politically untenable position for a party that portrays itself as the champions of low taxes.Seeking to regain their footing, congressional Republicans are adopting their own 2012 strategy. Sen. Johnny Isakson of Georgia said Saturday in the weekly Republican address that GOP lawmakers will push an ambitious economic agenda focused on a tax and regulation overhaul and energy security. He made no mention of the payroll-tax cut."As we enter into this New Year, many have predicted that Congress will be too consumed with the fall elections to accomplish anything significant," Mr. Isakson said. "Americans cannot wait until after the November election. They need us to do our job and do it right now to create an economic climate that makes it easier to put people back to work. Republicans stand ready to do that."The White House believes the December payroll-tax-cut debate afforded Mr. Obama, who initially proposed paying for the extension with a tax increase on millionaires, the political upper hand and momentum heading into 2012.The president's aides are convinced Congress will ultimately extend to the end of 2012 the current 4.2% payroll tax levied to fund Social Security, rather than allowing it to return to 6.2%, because all sides have now made clear they support the idea, leaving no room for a reversal. But the extension won't happen without a fight between the two parties, and Mr. Obama will try to capitalize on the moment by deploying his now-familiar message of being a champion of the middle class.Mr. Obama urged Congress on Saturday to "finish the job" on the payroll tax break in his weekly radio and Internet address. "As I've said before, we are at a make-or-break moment for the middle class," Mr. Obama said. "And in many ways, the actions we take in the months ahead will help determine what kind of country we want to be, and what kind of world we want our children and grandchildren to grow up in."Brendan Buck, a spokesman for House Speaker John Boehner (R., Ohio), said the president was putting "his presidency on autopilot" and added that "Americans expect their elected leaders to work together to boost job creation—even in an election year."The president is positioning himself for a tough re-election campaign with the unemployment rate stuck above 8%. His effort follows a year of political setbacks as he engaged congressional Republicans in a series of bitter budget fights, including a summer battle over raising the nation's debt limit.Since putting forward a jobs bill and a deficit-reduction proposal in September, the president has campaigned against Congress, disengaged with GOP leaders and deployed a new strategy of trying to pressure lawmakers by gaining support for his policies among voters across the country.Mr. Obama is planning an aggressive travel schedule next year, White House officials say. He is scheduled to travel to Ohio next week to hold an event on the economy after returning from a 10-day vacation in Hawaii. And he will hold campaign fund-raisers later in the month in Chicago and New York.The president is also preparing for his election-year State of the Union address on January 24. The address will offer Mr. Obama one of the only moments next year when his message will reach a vast, prime-time audience, and the White House intends to use it to telegraph his campaign message.SEOUL—Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., the world's largest shipbuilder by order value, is targeting $30.6 billion in orders and sales of 27.6 trillion won ($23.85 billion) in 2012, although it expects a "very difficult year" because of the European debt crisis."We are having difficulty in predicting business environments (for the year) due to volatility in currency exchange rates and raw materials prices," the Ulsan-based shipyard said in a statement.The 2012 annual order and sales targets are up 19.6% and 9.5%, respectively, from its results in 2011, when it booked $25.54 billion in orders and 25.2 trillion won in sales. Sales are based on cumulative orders that are realized.In 2011, the company missed its annual targets of $26.63 billion in orders and 26.945 trillion won in sales.Shipbuilders, including Hyundai Heavy, are stepping up their efforts to diversify their business portfolios as demand for commercial ships, such as container carriers and bulk carriers, remains weak.Of its seven business divisions, Hyundai Heavy is putting more focus on offshore facilities such as drill ships, increasing its order target to $5.2 billion this year from the $4.8 billion target in 2011. It has bid for some mega projects, including building a floating production storage & offloading unit worth up to $3.5 billion in Nigeria, Kang Chang-june, senior executive vice president in charge of the offshore & engineering division, told Dow Jones Newswires in late December.MIAMI GARDENS, Fla. – Now that they'll have some extra time to think, the New York Jets will have to undergo some serious introspection to figure out what made their 2011 season the underachieving mess that it was.New York's season, which Coach Rex Ryan vowed would end with a Super Bowl, won't even end in the playoffs.As it stood, the Jets entered Sunday on a prayer, needing a win and an incredible amount of help from other clubs to cash in on their slim postseason odds. But the help they needed became irrelevant once they lost 19-17 to Miami, a team out of playoff contention for nearly two months.Like so many of its eight losses, New York dominated for much of the contest. The Jets' (8-8) defense was stout through three quarters, but couldn't get off the field during a 21-play, 94-yard Miami drive in the fourth, when the Dolphins (6-10) ate more than 12 minutes of clock time and finished with a touchdown to take a 13-10 lead.And in a way, the Jets' final-quarter failings paralleled their lackluster season. They looked like playoff shoo-ins heading into the homestretch but couldn't close the door once they neared the finish line."I'm not convinced there's a huge difference between an 8-8 and 11-5 team," said running back LaDainian Tomlinson, referring to last year's club, which made the playoffs and eventually advanced to the AFC championship. "We just didn't win the close games this year. We did that last season."The club also failed to lock down the playoff spot in its grasp. Just two weeks ago – and even one week ago, before they went on to lose to the Giants – the Jets controlled their own playoff destiny and would've earned a playoff berth had they just won out.But, in a stark contrast to the way the last two regular seasons wrapped up, the Jets broke down spectacularly. That might have been most apparent Sunday when receiver and captain Santonio Holmes got benched late in the fourth quarter after getting in a heated confrontation with a teammate in the offensive huddle.After the game, teammates said Holmes – the team's No. 1 receiver who inked a five-year, $50 million deal before the season – had "quit" and expressed on-field frustration over the fact that he'd been held without a catch for the first time in 94 games.Jets cornerback Antonio Cromartie asserted that only "one side of the ball" appeared to be giving effort, a not-so-veiled shot at Holmes at least."Not really into the game, feeling like it's over, feeling sorry for himself," said tailback Tomlinson, the locker room's elder statesman, in explaining Holmes's body language. "It's tough for guys to follow a captain that behaves in that manner."Holmes said the benching, which occurred with the Dolphins up 19-10, was a "coach's call," adding, "Patrick [Turner] came in and tapped me on the shoulder and told me to come out."Asked if he thought he'd done anything to warrant being benched, Holmes said, "I honestly don't think I did. If it was my lack of jogging back to the huddle, the referees were looking at plays. I didn't feel like I had to rush myself."It was Turner who caught a touchdown pass from quarterback Mark Sanchez shortly after that, to bring the Jets within two with just over a minute left in the game.The team's lack of unity, as opposed to the togetherness it illustrated during its well-chronicled run on HBO's "Hard Knocks," at least momentarily shifted the focus away from the futures of offensive coordinator Brian Schottenheimer and Sanchez. Both men have drawn the ire of Jets' fans in recent weeks as the offense has sputtered.Sanchez's performance Sunday did nothing to quell his critics. He finished 21-of-32 for 207 yards and two touchdowns, but had three costly interceptions. "Today wasn't his best outing, let me put it that way," Ryan said. "But I've told you guys I think he's long-term solution. I don't think there's any doubt."But there are plenty of questions about what changes the team needs this offseason. Ryan's job is undoubtedly safe, but Holmes's behavior, particularly as a captain, raises serious questions. Sanchez definitely didn't make the progress the club was looking for in his third season as a pro.Team owner Woody Johnson has a history of demanding personnel changes, with coaches and players, when the team doesn't perform to its expectations. And for a club that came in with what seemed like a realistic shot at a Super Bowl run, the Jets fell spectacularly short."I'm always going to chase the Super Bowl. I know I get criticized for it beyond belief and all that stuff," Ryan said. "But if you don't [believe that] then you're probably a loser, okay? I'm not a loser. ... I'll find a way to make this team better."BEIJING—China's Ministry of Industry and Information Technology has released new regulations covering competitive practices in the country's booming Internet industry, saying they will help protect the rights of both companies and users.The rules could help prevent poor business practices in what is one of China's more freewheeling industries, dominated by non-state-owned companies that sometimes accuse competitors of foul play.Such disputes gained wide attention in late 2010, when the MIIT criticized major Chinese Internet companies Tencent Holdings Ltd. TCEHY 1.69% and Qihoo 360 Technology Co. as they publicly feuded over alleged unfair practices.The new rules bar companies from infringing on the "legal rights and interests" of other online service providers, such as by "maliciously" interfering with services from other companies on a user's device, the MIIT said Saturday.The rules also bar practices such as suspending services for a user "without a legitimate reason," changing a user's Internet browser settings without first gaining consent, or tricking a user into downloading software. Other parts of the rules cover issues like protecting users' information and making a company's public reviews of other online services objective."Competition in Internet information services is getting more intense each day and illegal incidents are gradually rising," Li Guobin, an inspector in the MIIT's politics and law section, said in a statement on the ministry website.The rules, which take effect March 15, will help "create a favorable environment for information services," he said.The MIIT, which didn't name any companies in its statements, said it started working on the rules in the second half of 2010—the period when it criticized Tencent and Qihoo for "improper competitive behavior." Tencent, which operates the popular QQ instant-messaging service, in November 2010 suspended operating that service for users with certain software installed from Qihoo, which makes antivirus products.Tencent didn't immediately reply to a request for comment on the new rules. Qihoo Chief Executive Zhou Hongyi in a statement welcomed the rules. "Moving forward, there will be better protection for Qihoo 360's customers," he said.HONG KONG—Hong Kong authorities late on Saturday suspended imports of live poultry and poultry products from parts of neighboring Shenzhen after a man there died from a lethal strain of avian influenza.The import ban, which is to last 21 days, comes as the city's government remains on high alert as the bird flu strain known as H5N1 has resurfaced in recent weeks.Hong Kong has occasionally detected bird flu in poultry, but there have been no major outbreaks in the city since 1997, when the virus killed six people and led to the slaughter of 1.5 million birds in the territory.Before Christmas, a dead bird found in the New Territories tested positive for the bird flu virus, just days after health authorities culled all 17,000 live poultry in a wholesale market after a dead chicken there tested positive for H5N1, the first new case since 2008.As a result of the earlier H5N1 case, the government raised the alert level regarding the virus to "serious" from "alert," and suspended live poultry imports for three weeks.Health officials at the southern Guangdong province said the Shenzhen man who contracted H5N1 died in hospital on Saturday from multiple organ failure. The authorities said that 120 people that had close contact with the man haven't showed any signs of flu.Local media reports say that the 39-year-old man was a frequent jogger at a Shenzhen wetlands park, visited by migratory birds. Hong Kong health authorities' three-week ban on poultry imports apply to a 13-kilometer radius from the victim's place of residence. The city's government said late on Saturday it will continue to closely monitor the latest situation about the bird flu death and will take appropriate follow-up action as necessary.Bird flu remains a threat primarily to poultry, not humans, among whom it is poorly transmitted. Still, a threat remains in the strain's potential to mutate into a truly human disease that health authorities warn could kill tens of millions. Health authorities have earlier recorded cases of human H5N1 infections in Asian countries including China, Indonesia, Cambodia and India.Rio Tinto Alcan, an aluminum-production unit of global mining giant Rio Tinto, said early Sunday that it locked out about 800 union workers at an aluminum smelter in the Canadian province of Quebec, after the plant's union rejected the company's latest proposal for a new labor contract.Rio said the 438,000-ton smelter at Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean would keep running, operated by unspecified staff, until further notice.Representatives for the Syndicat des travailleurs de l'aluminium weren't immediately available to comment Sunday. The union represents 755 employees at the plant, including 674 hourly workers, 25 office personnel and 56 others, the company said.Rio Tinto Alcan said it has been bargaining with the union since October. The union's contract expired on Saturday."Plans are in place to ensure that our aluminium operations throughout the region continue to run safely and efficiently, and we will work to limit the labour disruption's impact" on customers, the Montreal-based unit said in a statement.KAMPALA, Uganda—Uganda's long-serving leader, Yoweri Museveni, on Sunday pledged to boost food production and tackle inflation in 2012 as he seeks to calm public unrest which rocked the East African nation last year.In a national address, Mr. Museveni said that government would address food security, household incomes and increase exports by promoting the production of key food crops, such as corn, grains and cereals.Mr. Museveni's policy shift on food production underscores his government's growing desire to calm public outrage which has so far posed the strongest challenge to his 25-year rule.According to Mr. Museveni, food prices have been driven up mainly due to constraints to food production due to drought and increased local and regional food demand.To boost production, the government will focus on seeds, machinery for land preparation, irrigation, disease and pest control and post-harvest handling, Mueveni said.Government data indicate that food crop prices rose 20.4% last month from 5.5% in November 2010, stirring nation-wide anti-government protests.Veteran opposition politician Kizza Besigye inspired street protests for weeks starting in April with security forces responding with a crackdown that left more than a dozen people dead and several hundreds injured.Mr. Besigye, who lost to Mr. Museveni in a disputed February election, has threatened to organize North Africa-like protests to topple Mr. Museveni if the current steep food prices and inflation aren't addressed.Uganda until 2010 was the second largest food exporter to the United Nations World Food Program but yields were hurt last year due to poor rains.SEOUL—The annual New Year's message of North Korea's government, released Sunday, praised Kim Jong Il far more than it did when he was alive and broke form by not including a message from its current leader, who is now Mr. Kim's son Kim Jong Eun.Issued little more than two weeks after Kim Jong Il's Dec. 17 death and just a few days after a mourning period ended, the 5,700-word message was another sign that the North Korean regime isn't planning to change its authoritarian system now that he's gone.As in the past, the message was filled with exhortations to many sectors of society and the economy to work harder, do more and "staunchly defend the revolutionary heritage" shaped by Kim Jong Il and, before him, his father Kim Il Sung.But the influence of two elements specific to the moment was also visible throughout the text. The first was Kim Jong Il's death and the second was the need to reach goals that were set for the country's celebration in April of the 100-year anniversary of the birth of Kim Il Sung, the country's founder and "eternal president.""It was the ennobling intention of Kim Jong Il to celebrate the centenary of the birth of President Kim Il Sung as the most auspicious and significant event, which would solemnly declare the victory in the Songun-based great upsurge," the message said.Songun is the word North Korea uses to describe its policy, translated outside the country as "military first," that puts the military's needs at the center of most investment and economic decisions.The North Korean regime several years ago began touting 2012 and the Kim Il Sung birth centennial as the target for becoming a "strong and prosperous nation."As part of that effort, last year's New Year's message described 2011 as "a year of general offensive, when a radical turn should be brought about in the building of a thriving nation by kindling more fiercely the flames of great upsurge in improving the people's standard of living."In the same spot of this year's announcement – the overall message follows a template that has shown little change over the years – it said 2012 is the year "when Kim Jong Il's plan will bear a brilliant fruit, and the year of a grand march, when a new century of Kim Il Sung's Korea begins."In the place that usually carries a direct quote from the dictator himself, however, there was nothing.The message only mentioned South Korea directly once and carried the same language it has in the past about the North's desire to reunify the Korean peninsula under its leadership. On Friday, North Korea issued a harshly-worded message vowing not to work with South Korean President Lee Myung-bak, who it considers a "traitor to the nation" for placing conditions on the South's economic assistance to the North.The message contained 36 mentions of Kim Jong Il, 19 of Kim Il Sung and 15 of the new leader Kim Jong Eun. By comparison, the 2011 message had 10 mentions of Kim Jong Il, 13 of Kim Il Sung and none of Kim Jong Eun.The heavy emphasis on the Kim family is a sign of the regime's need to convince North Koreans to accept another generational transfer of dictatorial power. Kim Jong Eun is just 27 or 28 years old, much younger than his father was when he took control, a situation that would be difficult in any circumstance but made more so by the rigid adherence to seniority-based hierarchies in both Korean.In the New Year's message, the North Korean government said, "The dear respected Kim Jong Eun is precisely the great Kim Jong Il. The whole Party, the entire army and all the people should possess a firm conviction that they will become human bulwarks and human shields in defending Kim Jong Eun unto death."About 20 paragraphs later, it said, "The entire army should place absolute trust in and follow Kim Jong Eun and become human rifles and bombs to defend him unto death."Manchester United manager Sir Alex Ferguson celebrated his 70th birthday at Old Trafford on Saturday. A choir of young ladies dressed in United garb serenaded him before kickoff, and the calendar had served up what looked to be the ultimate cream puff for the Red Devils to devour: Blackburn Rovers, dead last in the Premier League, a club that had not won on the road since last season. The script called for a thumping to welcome in a New Year in which United would have ended 2011 in first place.Talk about spoiling the party.Blackburn won, 3-2, thanks to two goals from Yakubu—a chunky, globe-trotting Nigerian forward who made a name for himself in the Israeli league and spent most of last year on loan in the second flight—and one from Grant Hanley, one of six players on the pitch younger than 20.How to begin describing just how Twilight Zone this upset was?Start with the Blackburn boss, Steve Kean. This is his first gig as a manager—he has been in charge for just more than a year—and he has faced criticism and ridicule as the team spiraled down the table in recent months. Chants of "Kean Out!" are fairly common at Blackburn games. Banners bearing the same message were, too, until the club banned them from its Ewood Park stadium, prompting a group of enterprising fans to rent an airplane and fly the slogan above the grounds during a match against Chelsea in November. Even the local newspaper in Blackburn, the Lancashire Telegraph, called for his removal in a Dec. 19 staff editorial. In the often staid world of local journalism, that may well be unprecedented.Anger from fans and local media is equally directed at the club's owner, the Indian conglomerate Venky's, which acquired Blackburn in November 2010 and fired the incumbent manager, Sam Allardyce. He was replaced by Kean, who had been his assistant. Allardyce had steered Blackburn to a creditable 10th place the season before, and the club was tied for 12th when he was let go. Under Kean, the club slid to 15th by the end of the year.This season, Blackburn has been stuck near the foot of the table. Venky's is a diversified group that includes pharmaceuticals and processed food products, but it began as a poultry producer, which invites inevitable mockery of the chicken-farmer variety. Roping the team into shooting commercials like this has not really helped the case.Kean himself was the subject of ridicule when he failed a breathalyzer test on the way back from a match in May. He argued while pleading guilty in court that his license should not be suspended because one or more of his drinks—two and a half glasses of red wine and a bottle of Budweiser, according to his testimony—had been spiked. The judge disagreed. He banned him from driving for 18 months.The fact that Kean, an unremarkable player who held a number of low-profile assistant jobs before landing at Blackburn, is not part of soccer's old-boy network doesn't help, either. Without much of a track record, he is rarely given the benefit of the doubt by the media, and he often compounds matters by speaking in stilted coachspeak.But when you throw in the sheer number of absentees for Blackburn's trip to Old Trafford, you begin to appreciate just what a feat Saturday's victory was. First-choice goalkeeper Paul Robinson was injured, as were four veteran defenders, three of whom would have been starters. So, too, were stalwart midfielder David Dunn and winger Junior Hoilett.As a result, 20-year-old midfielder Jason Lowe found himself playing rightback, with 17-year-old Andrew Henley at leftback. Two of the three substitutes used—19-year-old Jordan Slew and 20-year-old Josh Morris—had played a combined 87 minutes of Premier League soccer before Saturday."When you consider the age and experience of our side, this has got to be one of my best days as a manager, but it's not about me," Kean said after the game. "I'm under no illusions that even this result will bring the fans round [to liking me]. But the results are what we need. Now we need to make sure the results are coming."Kean-bashers will likely point out that the upset was a fluke and that Blackburn caught an injury-riddled United team on a bad day. To be fair, half of Sir Alex's starting 11 was either missing or playing out of position. For those skeptics, the win will only prolong the agony and delay the day when Kean is finally driven out of Ewood Park.All of this may be true. But after a genuine annus horribilis in which Kean won just seven of 37 matches, the manager was due for spot of good luck—even if it came at the expense of Sir Alex's joint birthday and New Year's festivities.