The Giants claimed the N.F.L.’s last playoff spot in convincing fashion Sunday night, overpowering the Dallas Cowboys, 31-14, at MetLife Stadium to win the N.F.C. East.Eli Manning passed for 346 yards and 3 touchdowns, including a 74-yarder to Victor Cruz in the first half that exposed holes in the Dallas secondary that the two exploited all night. Cruz finished with six catches for 178 yards, including a 44-yard catch on third down that calmed the Giants’ nerves after Tony Romo had led Dallas back into the game.Romo played with a painful hand injury, but completed 29 of 37 passes for 289 yards and 2 scores. Both went to Laurent Robinson, the second pulling Dallas within a touchdown in the fourth quarter, at 21-14, after they had been manhandled by the Giants in the first half. But Manning went back to work, answering with a scoring drive that owed much to Cruz (who had catches of 44 and 20 yards) and ended with a short field goal by Lawrence Tynes.Dallas failed to move the ball on its next drive, punting it back to the Giants, and Manning drove right back down the field. The drive ended when he connected with Hakeem Nicks on a 4-yard touchdown pass that sealed the division title.The stakes in Sunday night’s game were high, and clear: both teams entered at 8-7, but only the winner would be headed to the playoffs as the N.F.C. East champion. That team will now be the Giants who, as the  fourth seed, will host Atlanta on Sunday at 1 p.m.DES MOINES — Virginia’s attorney general on Sunday backed off of a proposal to loosen the state’s ballot access rules to allow more Republican presidential candidates to qualify.Ken Cuccinelli, a Republican, on Saturday had proposed that the legislature pass a new, retroactive, law to allow anyone who qualifies for federal matching funds to be listed on the state’s March 6 primary ballot.That would have allowed Newt Gingrich and Rick Perry to be on the ballot even though they failed to qualify under the state’s existing, rigorous, system.But Mr. Cuccinelli said in a statement a day later that he had concluded there was no way to make a new system fair to candidates like Mitt Romney and Ron Paul, both of whom managed to qualify for the ballot under the existing rules.“My intentions have never focused on which candidates would be benefited or harmed,” Mr. Cuccinelli said in a statement released by his office. “While I will vigorously support efforts to reduce the hurdles to ballot access in Virginia for all candidates, I will not support efforts to apply such changes to the 2012 Presidential election.”Usually, it is not up to the subway system to declare a holiday in New York City.But straphangers who waited longer for their trains last week may be forgiven for thinking otherwise.It turns out that the four weekdays after the observed Christmas holiday — along with other ostensibly slow days like the Friday after Thanksgiving — qualified as “minor holidays” this year, according to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. The agency has celebrated by running fewer trains during the morning and evening rush.The reduced service was part of an experiment by the authority that seeks to address the problem of offering “more service than is required” on a group of weekdays with traditionally low peak-hour ridership. Subway officials say the move saves money.Only about 60 percent of the usual peak-hour crowd rides on days like Columbus Day and Good Friday, when service is not reduced, the authority says, and it will now run only 75 percent of the normal peak-hour service in order to compensate. That is slightly more service than is offered on a weekend schedule, which is typically used on major holidays like Christmas and Thanksgiving.There is not yet a consensus on what to call these real and ersatz holidays — Subway Sabbath, anyone? — but there will be 9 or 10 a year, depending on which holidays fall on weekends. The program, which is expected to save the authority about $200,000 annually, is currently limited to the numbered lines, but the plan could expand to the rest of the system if transit officials deem it a success.Some subway riders are not yet persuaded.“I got on the 6 train from 110th Street at just about 8:30, and it was a solid 10-minute wait for a train,” said Chris Daly, as he waited for the Lexington Avenue local to ferry him home from a crowded platform at Grand Central Terminal on Thursday evening.“It’s usually six minutes, tops, in the morning,” Mr. Daly, 37, said, craning his neck to peek down the tunnel. “It was certainly unusual.”As Mr. Daly waited, the platform was becoming increasingly claustrophobic. Hordes of puzzled tourists, many with rolling suitcases attached, poured down the staircases. Above Mr. Daly’s head, the L.E.D. countdown clock flashed an update: the next northbound No. 5 train was still 13 minutes away.Subway officials are monitoring the changes for evidence of overcrowding or any egregious delays, but they said they needed more time to reach any conclusions.“So far, we’re not aware of any negative feedback,” said Deirdre K. Parker, a spokeswoman for New York City Transit.Ms. Parker said bus service had traditionally been reduced on these days, with little outcry. But when the program was unveiled at an authority board meeting this fall, the response was somewhat skeptical.“The day after Thanksgiving is the busiest shopping day of the year,” said Andrew Albert, who sits on the authority’s board as a representative of the riding public and often raises concerns.A subway planner replied, “I’m not an expert on shopping volumes, but certainly, yes, that’s what’s reported in the press.”Reached this week, Mr. Albert, the chairman of the New York City Transit Riders Council, said his feelings on the program had not much improved.“I don’t know where they get this information from, that people aren’t working, but that’s pretty presumptuous, isn’t it?” Mr. Albert asked. “I see tons of tourists. Are the subways less crowded for anyone riding them?”“I don’t see Transit offering to add service at those times when it is really busy and you might need extra trains,” he added. “I just notice a penchant for taking it away.”But Mitchell L. Moss, the director of the Rudin Center for Transportation Policy and Management at New York University, said the changes reflected a shift in traveling patterns in the city.“At the M.T.A., there’s an old expression: ‘You’re only as good as your last rush hour,’ ” Mr. Moss said. “But the fact is, most New Yorkers are using the subway many hours throughout the day, not just at rush hour.”Although Mr. Moss conceded that he “was waiting forever for the train the other day,” he said the program was a pragmatic way to adjust to the habits of actual riders on the slower days.“Transportation is not just about peak-hour commuting anymore,” he said.Even Mr. Daly, the commuter looking for his No. 6 train, conceded that he did not see the usual corporate crowd waiting along with him. At his shared office space in Midtown, where he works with computer software, only 20 out of 100 people showed up on Thursday.“For this week,” Mr. Daly said, the reduced schedule “makes a bit of sense.”An international arbitration panel has ruled that Venezuela must pay Exxon Mobil more than $900 million in a long-simmering dispute over the nationalization of Exxon’s assets in Venezuela’s Orinoco Belt, one of the most coveted oil reserves outside the Middle East.Exxon waged a legal battle with Venezuela after President Hugo Chávez in 2007 took control of various big projects controlled by foreign oil companies. The move by Mr. Chávez came after escalating tensions with Exxon that included a raid on the company’s offices in Caracas, the Venezuelan capital. The seizing of Exxon’s assets opened the way for the nationalization of dozens of other companies’ assets in Venezuela.Patrick McGinn, a spokesman for Exxon, said in a statement that the decision by the International Chamber of Commerce confirmed that Petróleos de Venezuela, the country’s national oil company, had a “contractual liability” to Exxon. Exxon received the decision on Friday.Venezuelan officials did not respond to calls on Sunday seeking comment on the decision.The ruling by the International Court of Arbitration, which is based in Paris, is just one of several important arbitration cases Venezuela is facing over its nationalizations, including a separate case between Exxon and Venezuela that is pending before the International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes, part of the World Bank.Venezuela’s energy minister, Rafael Ramírez, said last year that Venezuela had calculated that the country could pay as much as $2.5 billion in compensation to Exxon and ConocoPhillips, another big American oil company, as a result of the arbitrations over the oil claims.Despite Venezuela’s legal battles over the 2007 nationalizations, the country’s oil industry remains open to substantial foreign investment, in contrast to those of other large oil-producing countries like Saudi Arabia and Mexico.The American oil company Chevron still ranks among Venezuela’s largest foreign investors, along with Chinese, Italian and Russian companies.They are lured by the potential of the Orinoco Belt, an area with heavy oil in southern Venezuela, which the United States Geological Survey said had the largest oil accumulation it ever assessed.While political relations remain tense between Caracas and Washington, the United States remains the largest buyer of Venezuelan oil. But Venezuela’s crude oil exports to the United States have been declining.Venezuela’s oil shipments to China, which have provided Venezuela with billions of dollars of loans, have been steadily climbing.A capsule look at the Jets’ 19-17 loss to the Dolphins:KEY PLAY/PERFORMANCE In the final game of his career, Miami linebacker Jason Taylor tormented his former team by forcing Mark Sanchez’s second interception midway through the fourth quarter. Taylor beat D’Brickashaw Ferguson and wrapped up Sanchez, whose throw caromed off Nick Mangold and deflected into the hands of Randy Starks, whose return led to a field goal that extended Miami’s lead to 16-10.NUMBER OF THE WEEK: 1 As in the number of seasons as a head coach that Rex Ryan will not participate in the playoffs. The feeling, he said, was unpleasant. “I will always chase the Super Bowl,” Ryan said. “I believe we’ll win the Super Bowl and I’ll believe it for the next 15 years. I’ll find a way to make this team better.”TALKING POINT With the Jets’ disappointing season over, what changes will they — and must they — make on their coaching staff and roster to return to the playoffs next season?To the Editor:As a psychiatrist and the parent of an adult son with autism, I found “In Treating Disabled, Potent Drugs and Few Rules” (front page, Dec. 23) to be unfair and detrimental to the families of the developmentally disabled. Although any medication can be inappropriately administered, the wholesale denigration of psychotropic medication for this population is misplaced.People with autism do indeed have a brain disorder, and so using medications that treat the brain makes perfect sense. Many autistic patients have symptoms that warrant such medications for their own protection. These include behaviors like head banging, self-biting, sleeplessness and aggression.I recently saw a patient in a developmental center who wore a helmet because of constant head-banging. When I asked what medications had been tried, staff members proudly told me that they had successfully avoided medicating this patient. But this decision came at a terrible cost to him, as his constant head-banging caused detachment of both retinas and blindness.Articles implying that all psychotropic medications are inappropriate for this population do a terrible disservice. They make family members and staff members fearful of medications that can often make important quality-of-life improvements and, as a result, actually hurt the patients we desire to help.To the Editor:Re “Better Care for the Disabled” (editorial, Dec. 21): I am the mother of a disabled adult who receives services from Wildwood Programs, an agency in upstate New York. Although my son is considered “high functioning,” he requires a great deal of support. My family helps him daily, but he needs more than we can provide for him ourselves. The counselors he has had over the years have been kind, compassionate and dedicated, and because of them and the agency they work for, my son has dignity.The treatment of residents in institutions that has been revealed in your reporting is criminal, and it sickens me to think that places that exist for the care and protection of such vulnerable people can allow inexcusable behavior toward them. There’s no question that such behavior has to change. However, the process of change should not hurt those who are well served or those who provide their excellent care.MARYBETH KALWEITTo the Editor:Re “Jurors Need to Know That They Can Say No,” by Paul Butler (Op-Ed, Dec. 21):It is deeply ironic that federal prosecutors have obtained an indictment of an American citizen, Julian P. Heicklen, for distributing brochures outside the United States Courthouse in Manhattan saying that jurors may disregard the law if they disagree with it and for encouraging them to render their verdicts according to conscience.For the generation that made the American Revolution, trial by jury was prized precisely because the jury could protect a defendant from an overreaching government. At the trial of John Peter Zenger in colonial New York in 1735, the defense counsel reminded the jury that they had “the right beyond all dispute to determine both the law and the fact.” And they did just that, acquitting Zenger of seditious libel for printing the truth about the government, for which they got three huzzahs from the crowded courtroom.It never occurred to me that teaching my students about this landmark case in the struggle for a free press could possibly be considered criminal.JOHN V. ORTHTo the Editor:Re “The Cratchit Tax Credit,” by Ross Douthat (column, Dec. 25):Although I rarely find common ground with Mr. Douthat, I agree that America’s policies with respect to families need to be updated.His suggestion of a policy debate as a first step that would include extended parental leave and an expansion of the child tax credit is a good one, although he acknowledges that neither is a “magic bullet.”But in our policy deliberations, we need to go much further to compensate for the stagnation in earnings and cutbacks in benefits.What stressed-out moms and dads really want are jobs with a living wage, paid sick days and maternity leave, affordable health care and a retirement plan that will provide a modicum of security when Mom and Dad leave the work force.AMY LAIKENTo the Editor:Yes, the American family is changing and needs help. But Ross Douthat’s suggestion that “conservatives recoil from the idea of increasing the government’s role in the most intimate of spheres” is so ridiculous it is hard not to laugh, except that real people in real families are suffering.It is conservatives who continually demand that the government not allow women the right to control their bodies with affordable and accessible birth control, including the right to choose whether to terminate a pregnancy. It is conservatives who tell gays and lesbians that we are not allowed to marry, to adopt, to care for foster children. Aren’t those “the most intimate of spheres”?LYNN B. COOPERTo the Editor:Ross Douthat’s column focuses on government as the driver of change. In contrast, groups like Take Back Your Time, Birthdays Without Pressure, Putting Family First and the Citizen Father Project are cross-partisan citizen efforts to tame the hypercompetitive, oversexualized consumer culture that corrodes family life.Elected officials can help by using the bully pulpit to showcase these movements; government bodies can help fight misleading ads and play other catalytic roles.But all require a shift from seeing government as the primary agent providing services and solutions to government as partner and instrument of the citizenry.This returns to the nation’s founding ideal: “We the people” create government, not the other way around.HARRY C. BOYTEMARSHALLTOWN, Iowa — Newt Gingrich said he felt “Romney-boated” by attack advertisements from Mitt Romney’s supporters — a reference to the Swift Boat Veterans for Truth campaign that hurt Senator John Kerry’s campaign in 2004 — and promised an aggressive, pointed response in New Hampshire and South Carolina.“I probably should have responded faster and more aggressively,’’ Mr. Gingrich told reporters here Sunday. “If somebody spent $3.5 million lying about you, you have some obligation to come back and set the record straight.’’Mr. Gingrich acknowledged that his campaign had underestimated the damage inflicted by ads and mailers that accused him of influence-peddling because he had earned $1.6 million in consulting work for Freddie Mac.The Iowa race, he said, was still in flux, and his “experiment” in staying positive – a promise he has not always stuck to – could still pay dividends at the caucuses on Tuesday.As the campaign moves to New Hampshire and South Carolina, Mr. Gingrich said he would direct ads that point up Mr. Romney’s relatively moderate record as governor of Massachusetts — not attacks, he insisted, but a look at the record.“I think you can do very calm, very pleasant ads,’’ he said. “The nature of the Republican Party is such that a calm, pleasant ad that says he was for tax-paid abortions, I’m against it” would have an impact.“Romney called himself a moderate as governor,’’ he said. But, he added, Mr. Romney registered as a Democrat to vote for Paul Tsongas, a former senator from Massachusetts. “You don’t have to get into his Bain career or get into any other things that would get into negative advertising,” he said, referring to Bain Capital, the private equity firm Mr. Romney helped start.He acknowledged the damage that the attacks had done to his own campaign, knocking him down “from the 30s to the teens” in Iowa polls — from the top to the middle of the pack in just three weeks.But he said the beneficiary had not been Mr. Romney but other conservatives, principally Rick Santorum, the former senator from Pennsylvania. “It didn’t help Romney at all,’’ he said. The larger lesson, he said, was that the majority of Republicans were still seeking a conservative standard-bearer.Asked if Mr. Santorum could be that candidate, Mr. Gingrich said his own credentials were better, and he cited his role leading the Republican takeover of the House in 1994.“I’m not going to say anything negative about Rick Santorum,’’ he said, adding that he was a friend. “I think I’m a more experienced national leader with greater experience to change Washington, and that’s what I’d make the final argument.’’Last year will be remembered as the moment when dance music slithered across the Atlantic and insinuated itself into American genres that have hitherto been immune to it. In mainstream pop, R&B, even hip-hop, tempos and ecstatic feeling were on the rise across the board.This was in no small part, the work of the Dutch D.J. and producer Afrojack, who through a combination of serendipity and idiosyncrasy had a hand in three of the year’s biggest and best songs. “Run the World (Girls),” by Beyoncé, was heavily based on the post-baile funk and dancehall rager “Pon de Floor,” by Major Lazer, which Afrojack had a hand in producing. The bizarre electro-R&B hit “Look at Me Now,” by Chris Brown with Lil Wayne and Busta Rhymes, was produced in part by Afrojack. And Pitbull’s flamboyant, thumping “Give Me Everything,” which reached No. 1 on the Billboard singles chart, was a joyous Afrojack production all the way.Nevertheless, Afrojack didn’t trumpet this achievement during his two-plus-hour D.J. set at Roseland Ballroom on Friday night, and the crowd of aggressive if awkward dancers didn’t much mind. If anything, those breakthroughs, significant as they are to the story of contemporary pop, are anomalies for Afrojack, who has several king-size songs in the dance music world for every pop hit. (He had played the nightclub Pacha the night before Roseland.)The crossover hits got maybe five minutes in total Friday. Over the last four years Afrojack has released a torrent of singles and remixes, as well as a pair of EPs, and large portions of his set were drawn from this part of his catalog. That meant “Take Over Control,” his sinuous collaboration with the singer Eva Simons, and “Louder Than Words” his blissful, bubbly collaboration with the dance music-crossover elder David Guetta; a remix of “Let’s Make Nasty,” by Larry Tee and Roxy Cottontail; as well as versions of “Kickstarts” by Example, and “Hello, ” by Martin Solveig and Dragonette.The concession Afrojack makes to pop is to emphasize the vocal end of the dance music spectrum, with moments of his set — and several of his productions — feeling like steroidal versions of classic house music, or even freestyle. He also sprinkled in snippets of pop songs with dance music sympathies, like Kid Cudi’s “Day ’n’ Nite,” Far East Movement’s “Like a G6” and Rihanna’s “We Found Love. ”When Afrojack went darker, more minimal, and with fewer exuberant vocals at about the midpoint of his set, it sagged notably. His music is bright and optimistic, something that he communicates through his body as much as the songs themselves. He’s the sort of D.J. who, every time there’s a distinctive or surprising melodic line running through one of the songs he’s playing, acts it out with his right hand — punctuating the air, lost in the revelry himself.