The last time an NFL team tied a regular-season game and also won that year's Super Bowl. The San Francisco 49ers are the only NFL team this postseason with a tie.The 1967 Packers, 1970 Colts and 1974 Steelers are the teams to pull off the feat.In today's Washington, the two parties have a hard time even agreeing to disagree.That was the grim picture on New Year's Day in a capital still tied in knots over how to find a deficit-reduction deal, despite a full year's advance warning that one was absolutely, positively essential by year's end.Even when the contours of a potential big deal were possible to see weeks ago, the path to compromise proved too hard for President Barack Obama and Republican House Speaker John Boehner.When the two sides lowered their sights to seek a more modest deficit-reduction deal, there still was no solution in sight—until time ran out on the year 2012. Then Republicans and Democrats in the Senate decided to put aside the things they couldn't possibly agree on to pass a relatively narrow tax bill that included items each side could at least live with. But within hours, even that minimalist agreement was in peril in the House.All of which must leave many Americans asking a simple question: Why is this so hard?There are multiple reasons that even what seems easy is hard in Washington right now. The problems start, of course, with the basic polarization of not just Congress but the country. America is in an unusual political state, in which the two parties are quite evenly divided in power, but far apart ideologically.That makes governing difficult for Mr. Obama, but also for Mr. Boehner and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Democrat. Because of the close division of power, neither side thinks it is required by the political calculus to give in to the other. Because of the wide ideological divide, neither side finds it easy to split the difference with the other.Divisions are present in the Senate, to be sure, though the 89-8 vote in the wee hours of New Year's Day showed that it's at least possible to move around them in that chamber.In the House, there is almost no middle ground, and the vote there Monday night was far more divided along partisan lines. Most members come from such reliably Democratic or Republican districts that they simply feel no pressure back home to compromise with the other side. Indeed, in this fall's election, 125 House members won their districts with 70% or more of the vote. Such margins leave House members thinking they have their own personal mandates to stick to their guns.That kind of polarization only creates the backdrop for other problems. Even when the differences between the two sides seem relatively small—whether, for example, to raise the top tax rate four percentage points for families earning more than $250,000, or whether to make that income level $450,000—compromise is difficult because both sides think important precedents would be set. Today's decisions will set the backdrop for broader debates on tax reform and spending later in the year.When Republicans agreed to raise any tax rates at all, for example, they knew that they had opened the door for a new set of arguments about which rates and at what level. The question had shifted from whether to raise rates to how—and that's a significant shift.Similarly, when Mr. Obama said he could accept the idea of reducing entitlement costs by embracing a formula for lowering cost-of-living increases for Social Security recipients, he was setting a precedent as well—a precedent saying that Democrats were willing to consider policies that reduced entitlement spending not just by holding down costs but also by reducing benefits to recipients.Similarly, both sides have a sense that the current talks are establishing something broader on another front: The debate is going to help set the tone for the entire second Obama term.Democrats fear that if the president gives too much ground now, he will establish a pattern in which both parties will enter future debates expecting him to give in to Republican intransigence.By the same token, Republican partisans think the GOP needs to establish now that their party's control of the House, amid Democratic control of the Senate and the White House, is enough to give the party significant leverage for the next couple of years.Lurking in the background is one other factor that makes compromise increasingly difficult in the capital. As both states and congressional districts become more clearly red or blue—dominated by Republican voters and Democratic voters, respectively—an increasing number of lawmakers worry less about a political challenge from the other party and more about a primary challenge from a ideologically driven conservative or liberal from within the lawmaker's own party.As a result, the more politically perilous route is to move to the middle in a compromise, thereby inviting that kind of primary challenge, rather than to stand on firm ideological ground and be accused of being too uncompromising.For President Barack Obama, the new year was supposed to bring an end to fiscal-cliff negotiations and the opportunity to begin work on a second-term agenda.But the failure to craft a grand bargain to address the country's fiscal woes means that contentious discussions about spending cuts and the debt ceiling will continue in 2013—potentially diminishing the time and goodwill Mr. Obama needs to pursue his policy priorities.Critics of the budget compromise already are signaling that hard feelings about this protracted process could linger, creating an uncertain path for the president as he tries to build support for proposals including an immigration-law overhaul, tax-code changes, energy legislation and other issues.Still, the White House deal with Congress appears to have bolstered Mr. Obama's position in some ways. The president won a concession from Republicans in Congress on a central tenet of GOP ideology, which holds that tax rates should never rise. Moreover, Mr. Obama's success on that point came with a flourish—a show of overwhelming support in the Senate, on a vote of 89-8.Conservative opposition in the House failed to stop the deal, and that chamber approved the package late Tuesday.Those developments not only suggest that the White House can strike deals with congressional Republicans in what has seemed like an ossified Washington political culture, but also that Mr. Obama has momentum in pursuing his goals. Mr. Obama appears to have a channel to negotiate with the GOP, by having Vice President Joe Biden work with Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R., Ky.).The cost to Mr. Obama is some complaining from the political left, which among other things notes that he has abandoned his campaign pledge to raise tax rates on household incomes above $250,000 in favor of the negotiated level of $450,000 for couples.The White House believes the compromise is a victory for the president. A person familiar with the discussions noted that Mr. Obama faced determined Republican opposition and still managed to forge an agreement that raises tax rates for the first time in a generation."The president has delivered on a major campaign promise and broken Republicans' backs on a 20-year pledge" to oppose tax rate increases, a White House official said.But some Republicans have said that Mr. Obama fouled the water during the fiscal-cliff talks with combative, cajoling tactics. The president drew Republican ire Monday when he held a campaign-style event as the fiscal-cliff deadline loomed and passage of a deal remained uncertain.Sen. John McCain (R., Ariz.) called the gathering a "cheerleading rally." Sen. Bob Corker, a Tennessee Republican, accused the president of heckling Congress.The White House said the appearance had been long in the works and was meant to highlight the real-world consequences of going over the fiscal cliff.Rep. Mike Rogers (R., Mich.) said the president has focused his efforts during the past few weeks on railing against Congress and Republicans in particular instead of launching a dialogue."The president just doesn't play well with others," he said. "I do think he's up for a bumpy road, given his tactics."Historically, second-term presidents have had a limited window to roll out major policy proposals before lame-duck status sets in and passing significant legislation becomes a steeper challenge. With that in mind, Mr. Obama has said he would roll out proposals aimed at reducing gun violence and overhauling immigration laws early this year.The White House view is that Mr. Obama would have been ill-positioned to pass policy priorities if the country was still preoccupied with the effects of having gone over the fiscal cliff.But now, because lawmakers postponed for two months the spending cuts that were set to take effect Wednesday, fiscal issues will continue to consume much of the political oxygen in the near future. So will talks about whether to raise the nation's statutory borrowing limit.Even in the best of times, issues such as immigration and gun control are flash points for the political parties, said William Galston, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and a former policy adviser to President Bill Clinton. The past couple of months suggest that these aren't the best of times in Washington, he said."Whatever hope [Mr. Obama] may have had of changing the tone in Washington must have disappeared by now," he said. "It's an unpleasant discovery that the election appears to have changed much less and settled much less than he at least hoped."Others are more optimistic, though, suggesting that even contentious issues such as immigration won't be as politically perilous as raising taxes. Rewriting immigration laws is a complex task, but many Republicans and Democrats are motivated to pass legislation in an effort to appeal to the growing number of Hispanic voters.Some corporate leaders are relieved lawmakers reached a deal to avoid most of the fiscal cliff, but also bemoan a lost opportunity to reach a larger deficit-reduction package that could have shifted the focus of many corporations away from Washington's fiscal dithering.Business executives were glad Congress approved legislation Tuesday to avert the combined tax increases and spending cuts that likely would have triggered a recession. Several also welcomed the raft of corporate tax breaks included in the bill.But they also expressed frustration that the deal tees up additional fiscal battles in coming months over raising the government's borrowing limit and dealing with roughly $110 billion in deferred spending cuts."Now we face another fiscal cliff in two months' time," said Alexander Cutler, chief executive officer of Eaton Corp., a maker of electrical and hydraulic equipment, with sales of more than $20 billion a year. "This virtual rolling thunder style of negotiation and lack of progress has done nothing to reduce uncertainty—uncertainty that continues to negatively impact investment and job growth."Paul Wichert, vice president of the machine tools group at Liberty Diversified International, New Hope, Minn., said Washington didn't do nearly enough to fix tax and spending problems. "Most business people will view this as more dysfunction in the legislative process," he said."It only gives us a very short-term view of the future," Mr. Wichert said. "As business people we plan one to three to five years out. Our political leaders can't get more than 90 days resolution without more stagnation."The legislation that passed Tuesday came after dozens of chief executives descended on Washington in the past two months, pleading with the Democrats and Republicans to reach a more comprehensive, bipartisan agreement to reduce the deficit with both tax increases and spending cuts. Their effort fell short, however, as many of the CEOs backed away from the talks when political bickering intensified.In the end, the deal raised income and investment taxes on upper-income households and payroll taxes for workers, extended business-tax breaks for a year, continued unemployment benefits for a year, and did not include any immediate spending cuts.The business-tax breaks include incentives for research and development as well as for investments in equipment and machinery.Rob Smith, president and owner of Acutec Precision Machining Inc., a Saegertown, Pa., maker of parts for aircraft, gas turbines and other products, said the extension of incentives for capital investment was "very good news." As a result, he said, the closely held company, which has about 320 employees, is likely to go ahead with about $5 million of spending on new equipment in 2013.But executives and economists warned the looming showdown over the government's debt ceiling in February is likely to constrain hiring and investment in the next few months. This would only further inflame corporate frustration with Washington after two years of pitchforked battles over tax and spending policy.Farooq Kathwari, chief executive of Ethan Allen Interiors Inc., a Danbury, Conn.-based maker and retailer of furniture, called the compromise "a short-term fix" and said "overall the tax increases as proposed make sense." But he said Ethan Allen would have to wait for Washington to deal with the next fiscal deadline before deciding whether to make any changes in capital spending and hiring plans.The final bill "tackles the easiest pieces of the cliff and not the bigger issues of long-term spending and the debt limit," Nomura Securities economist Lewis Alexander said Tuesday. He expects "a significant economic slowdown at the start of the year in response to fiscal drag and continued, contentious fiscal debate."Many economists predict painfully slow growth this year as Washington continues the sparring that has worried investors and businesses for years. Several project the payroll tax increase alone will shave about a half percentage point off growth this year, a significant dent in an economy that has been growing around 2% a year.The deal comes as the economy has struggled to gain momentum. Employment and housing have shown recent signs of resurgence, but many companies are holding back, fearing political fights will arrest the recovery.Consumers' confidence in the economic outlook plummeted in December as a result of the recent budget negotiations, following an earlier slide in business confidence. Many analysts expect investors, businesses and some consumers to remain on edge as the debt-ceiling battle begins."There's huge amounts of uncertainty, and people don't know what will happen with the markets or the economy," said Stephen Wiehe, chief executive of Cary, N.C.-based software maker SciQuest Inc. About half of SciQuest's clients are in state government or public universities, and Mr. Wiehe says he expects the uncertainty to leave his clients more cautious in their spending.WASHINGTON—The fiscal-cliff bill that cleared Congress Tuesday includes a measure to avert the "dairy cliff," a sharp rise in consumer prices for milk that could have been triggered by the expiration of the 2008 farm bill.A nine-month extension of the farm bill was added to the fiscal-cliff package before it passed the Senate in the early hours Tuesday; the House cleared the bill Tuesday night.The measure avoids the automatic revival of a 1949 law that would require the federal government to buy dairy products using a formula that would set a floor price for milk that is double the current market prices—a scenario that could have doubled the price consumers pay at the supermarket.The extension of the 2008 farm bill is intended to give lawmakers an opportunity to reach agreement on a new five-year bill, which has been a contentious issue, particularly in the House.The temporary farm fix also continues most subsidy programs for corn, soybeans, wheat, rice, cotton, and other crops until Sept. 30, 2013.Much of the 2008 farm bill expired on Sept. 30, 2012, but the government's current milk-buying program—which sets a floor for milk prices—expired Dec. 31.Under the legislation, most milk subsidies will be extended through September, and the seldom-used purchasing program will run through year's end.WASHINGTON—The fiscal-cliff deal approved in the Senate included a $12 billion extension of a wind-power tax credit and other support for renewable energy, sparking opposition from House Republicans who said it was an example of the kind of government spending they wanted to cut.The opposition ultimately wasn't enough to topple the bill, which the House approved late Tuesday without changes. But the debate was a reminder of the differences between President Barack Obama, who has described clean energy as a top priority of his second term, and many Republicans."Rather than prop up an industry that still can't stand on its own feet, it's time to pull the plug," Rep. Paul Broun (R., Ga.) said through a spokeswoman Tuesday.The package also included tax credits for parochial causes from coal mining on Indian reservations to producing motor fuels from nonedible plants.While these provisions were a relatively small part of the bill in dollar terms, a number of House Republicans raised them as symbols of what they called the Senate bill's inadequate efforts to cut federal spending."This bill in its present form is not good enough," Rep. Darrell Issa, the California Republican who is chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said in a CNN interview that followed an afternoon meeting of House Republicans to discuss the deal. "What we find missing from it is any kind of reasonable spending reductions."Watching the budget negotiations "has been a roller-coaster ride," said Dan Houser, chief financial officer at International Speedway Corp., which successfully lobbied for the Senate to include a provision that allows the promoters of Nascar and other racing circuits to claim early tax write-offs for the cost of racetrack improvements.He said the company was "breathing a whole lot easier" after the Senate passed the deal early Tuesday.The package of tax provisions gives relief to renewable energy companies, from manufacturers building wind turbines in Iowa to refiners developing facilities to make fuel from wood in Mississippi.The wind tax credit in particular had been the subject of intense lobbying in recent weeks, with opponents saying that at a time of high budget deficits, the subsidy was too expensive. Exelon Corp., one of the largest U.S. utilities and a major wind-farm operator, broke ranks with wind promoters and lobbied not to extend the credit, saying the subsidy distorted electricity prices and made the company less likely to add new generating capacity.The cost of extending the wind-energy credit, which is worth 2.2 cents for every kilowatt-hour of electricity generated by a wind farm, was estimated at $12 billion over 10 years by the Joint Committee on Taxation.Not all Republicans oppose the wind credit. GOP lawmakers from states such as Iowa and Colorado with healthy wind-power sectors joined Democrats and clean-energy advocates in arguing that extending the credit was key to preserving 75,000 jobs in the wind-energy business. They said the expiration of the tax credit would have cost 37,000 jobs.Companies throughout the industry including Siemens AG and smaller parts makers laid off U.S. employees in 2012. Also, because wind-farm developers hurried to finish projects in 2012 before the credit expired, a good part of the pipeline for future projects has already been installed, which will further damp the prospects for 2013.The fiscal-cliff deal modified the wind credits so developers can receive them for projects that begin construction by Jan. 1, 2014, rather than having to connect to the electricity grid by that date. Without the looser terms, the one-year extension would have had little use because it can take between 12 and 24 months to build a wind farm.Still, the bill offers little long-term certainty for renewable energy companies. Along with the year-end deadline for wind farms to start construction, the extended tax credits for advanced plant fuels also expire at the end of 2013.House Speaker John Boehner, who for two years has been buffeted by the conservative inclinations of his rank-and-file, watched in silence during a meeting with his Republican members Tuesday, as one by one they rejected a deal that passed the Senate overwhelmingly just hours earlier.Joining them was his No. 2, Majority Leader Eric Cantor, who told the closed-door session in the Capitol basement that he opposed the deal designed to avert the fiscal cliff, which the U.S. has technically gone over.Once again, Mr. Boehner's leadership seemed surrounded by chaos, as it has in other showdowns with Democrats on fiscal matters. But the speaker found a way to turn aside the very real prospect that the deal would fail in his chamber, which would have forced the White House to renegotiate with the new Congress that takes office on Thursday.Mr. Boehner always said he would lead his House Republicans with a soft touch, giving deference to committee chairmen and allowing rank-and-file members to have their say. On Tuesday, Mr. Boehner moved the deal through his chamber not by dictating an outcome, but by presenting a choice.In a Tuesday night session, the speaker said the GOP conference could add $300 billion in spending cuts to the Senate-passed bill, an option that might mollify House conservatives anxious about the lack of deficit-reduction in the bill. If that option didn't have sufficient votes—and it turns out it didn't—Mr. Boehner said the house would move on to considering the Senate measure.Both Messrs. Boehner and Cantor cautioned that the Senate might not take up the amended legislation.That would leave the House to blame for standing in the way of a bill that sailed through the Senate and had been blessed by the administration, opening the GOP to fresh blame.The strategy forced Mr. Boehner's rank-and-file to confront the risks of their intransigence. By Tuesday evening, Republicans rose in the closed-door session to say they wanted to vote solely on the Senate-passed measure.Instead of new gridlock and setbacks, the deal crafted by Vice President Joe Biden and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R., Ky.) won approval in both chambers of Congress, but only after a wide majority of Mr. Boehner's Republican colleagues voted against it, including Mr. Cantor and his no. 3, House Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy (R., Calif.).The Senate-passed measure would preserve the current income-tax rates on household income below $450,000, extend federal jobless benefits and defer scheduled across-the-board spending cuts for two months as Congress takes another stab at paring the deficit.Still, Tuesday's drama illustrated how hard it is for the speaker to manage his volatile caucus. When the deal was coming together, Boehner aides expressed their concern to Mr. McConnell's staff that delaying the cuts for two months could face House resistance. At a meeting of party leaders Tuesday morning, Mr. Boehner and his team expressed frustration with the deal and decided to hear other lawmakers' concerns before determining how to proceed.The fireworks began even before Republicans entered the first of two meeting with their leaders Tuesday."I wish I could say this was a proud moment," said Rep. Darrell Issa (R., Calif.), who criticized the bill for its failure to cut spending and tackle long-term deficit problems. "I may vote for what comes to the floor…but it is the smallest finger in a dike that has in fact a hundred holes in it.""This isn't a done deal by any stretch," said Rep. Steve LaTourette (R., Ohio), a retiring centrist serving his final days in the House. He questioned the wisdom of accepting "a package put together by a bunch of sleep-deprived octogenarians on New Year's Eve.""The spending part is killing me," said Rep. Mick Mulvaney of South Carolina, one of 87 House Republicans elected as part of the class of 2010 that has, on occasion, given party leaders fits. "All we see is tax increases."Mr. Boehner opened Tuesday's session by reminding his colleagues that he was "not party to this deal," telling them, "I didn't negotiate it, and I haven't endorsed it," according to notes provided by one attendee. He said they would decide their response together.Mr. Boehner favors subtle coaxing to direct confrontation. He spent months planning his strategy to get Republicans to accept a deal that would raise tax revenue. Conservatives, however, have bristled under his slow-and-steady approach.The speaker reminded the attendees that technically the U.S. had already gone over the cliff. Moments later, Mr. Cantor said he opposed the measure in its current form, a view he had already expressed to other leaders, according to GOP aides.The declaration was read by some as a direct affront to Mr. Boehner.But a Cantor aide posted a note on Twitter saying "Majority Leader Cantor stands with Speaker Boehner. Speculation otherwise is silly, nonproductive and untrue."BEIRUT—Domestic politics and a June election could make the difference in how Iran addresses its main dilemma of the coming year: whether to compromise on its nuclear program or maintain a policy of defiance.Iran is slated to elect a new president amid deep political divisions and rivalries among conservative factions. The issues at the heart of Iran's standoff with the West—the country's economy, its isolation and security—will likely dominate the campaign.The contest for power will pit candidates seen as loyal to Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei against those associated with President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. The main reformist parties said they would boycott the elections.The discord is on daily display in Iranian media, with prominent political figures blaming one another for an economy withering from international sanctions and years of mismanagement, with a plummeting currency and skyrocketing inflation.For Iran, maintaining the status quo with the West could invite additional sanctions and a possible military strike by Israel to prevent the countryfrom building a nuclear weapon. Iran says its nuclear program is solely for peaceful energy purposes.Mr. Ahmadinejad's oppenents say he and his administration have mismanaged the economy and challenged the will of Mr. Khamenei, who has the last word on all state matters. In November, Mr. Ahmadinejad ruffled some feathers when he said the nuclear impasse would be resolved only through direct negotiations with the U.S. Washington has said it was ready for such discussions.In Iran, the idea is gaining momentum that talks between Iran and the U.S. must proceed in parallel to Iran's nuclear negotiations with the five permanent members of the U.N. Security Council plus Germany, analysts say. Both sides in those so-called P5+1 talks have indicated a timetable will be set to meet again in 2013, after talks stagnated in 2012.Iran's goal, some analysts say, is a grand bargain that recognizes its right to enrich uranium, lays out steps toward relief of sanctions and addresses concerns such as a possible military strike by Israel, a stake in a post-Assad Syria and assurances that the U.S. isn't plotting for regime change in Tehran."In Iran, many people are realizing that nothing will move forward until Iran and the U.S. sit down and discuss their issues. Mr. Khamenei is not opposed to these talks in principle, but he needs reassurances that the U.S. won't meddle in Iran's internal affairs," said Seyed Hossein Mousavian, who was part of Iran's nuclear negotiating team until 2005 and is currently a visiting scholar at Princeton University.On the other hand, Tehran has built a legacy of anti-Western rhetoric, and any concessions could diminish its stature at home and among its proxies abroad, specifically Hezbollah in Lebanon and Hamas in Gaza. Mr. Khamenei will consider a compromise only if he feels there is sufficient unity and stability inside the regime so that Iran doesn't look weak, analysts say.To that end, the regime will be focused on getting through June's presidential elections with minimum turmoil, after the demonstrations that followed the 2009 election and the regional uprisings of the Arab Spring.Mr. Ahmadinejad, who is ineligible to run for re-election, could be another obstacle to progress in nuclear negotiations: The regime, analysts say, is wary of giving the credit and legacy of a political breakthrough with the West to a controversial, lame duck president.The president's conservative detractors hope to clip his wings out of fear that he aims to overstep Mr. Khamenei's powers. Mr. Ahmadinejad's allies have fought back with smear campaigns aimed at discrediting heavyweight pragmatic figures, such as former president Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, who are trying to influence Mr. Khamenei to strike a nuclear deal."In some ways, Ahmadinejad's delusions of grandeur and insubordination are now an asset for U.S. policy. If he's not accommodated, he could sow divisions and crisis among Iran's senior political elite," making it difficult to compromise with the West, said Karim Sadjadpour, Iran expert at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.BEIJING—Not too long ago, the Brics nations looked like they might be able to provide a powerful engine of growth for the global economy. Don't count on it for 2013.Brics refers to some of the stars of the emerging markets—Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa—which together represent 40% of the world's population. But only one of the nations, China, has the economic heft to make a major difference internationally on its own, and it is just now starting to come out of a slowdown. The other four nations face a variety of economic challenges, ranging from inflation to inadequate foreign investment to labor unrest.Since 2009, the leaders of the group have held four leaders summits. South Africa, which joined the group at the end of 2010, is hosting the fifth summit in Durban, South Africa, in March 2013. But the hope that the Brics countries would help one another through increased trade, investment and political support hasn't panned out. Officials and analysts from Brics nations say they act as much as rivals as allies, and their lack of cohesion adds to their economic problems.China complains that other Brics countries increasingly target it in anti-dumping suits. Brazil objects to Moscow's restrictions on Brazilian agricultural imports. Russia is trying to turn itself into a major farm exporter, which is bound to heighten competition with Brazil. Slower growth in China and India pushes down commodity prices, which hurts South Africa and Russia."The Brics is not about the economy," said Fyodor Lukyanov, an analyst who chairs an influential Kremlin foreign-policy advisory board. "The bloc sees itself as an alternative to the West, but not a confrontational one, like Iran." On the economic front, Brics nations "have different, sometimes conflicting interests," he said.The Brics view themselves as an alternative to the Group of Seven industrial nations—U.S., Canada, France, Britain, Germany, Italy and Japan—politically and economically. But the economies of the Brics and the G-7 remain interlocked. When the U.S. financial crisis spread to Europe, it didn't stop there. The Brics nations weakened because they lost big export markets and sources of financing and investment.In 2009, China's vast stimulus plan helped shore up commodity prices, which helped its Brics partners—for Russia on oil and gas, for Brazil or iron ore and agricultural goods; and for India and South Africa on minerals. But China itself slowed in 2012, as did the other four Brics nations, which all are expected to register slower growth for 2012 than they did the previous year, according to JP Morgan. The bank predicts all but Russia, whose growth rate is expected to slow further, will see modest improvements in 2013."These countries face so many domestic problems," said Arvind Subramanian, a former IMF senior economist who is now at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. "The common dynamism they had is coming under question."For China, 2013 looks as if it will yield somewhat faster growth than 2012, when its economy is expected to show a 7.6% increase, according to JP Morgan, the slowest pace in more than a decade. China slowed because European and U.S. export markets shriveled, but also because the country's leaders, wrestling with the legacy of the stimulus spending, imposed restrictions on real estate to deflate a housing bubble.Now, feeling more confident that it has housing and banking problems under control, officials have been easing restrictions and approving more infrastructure projects. A number of analysts project China's growth in 2013 should top 8%."China should be able to generate a positive impulse for growth," said RBS analyst Louis Kuijs, as imports of commodities and other goods needed to build Chinese projects pick up.Modest gains by other Brics nations aren't likely to matter nearly as much internationally. India, with nearly the same population as China, has an economy just one-third the size of China's. With inflation in India above 7% and large current-account and budget deficits, growth isn't the country's main concern."The government has now little choice but to press for fiscal consolidation," said an RBS analysis, to reduce deficits and reassure investors the country isn't a candidate for default. New Delhi is focusing on pushing through politically difficult reforms that would boost foreign investment, open up closed sectors and spur infrastructure spending.Brazil, with its history of hyperinflation, is also on guard for a resurgence in inflation, which may limit its potential for growth in the coming year. A number of Brazil analysts say that the country's mix of high tax rates, poor infrastructure and heavy government intervention in industries gives it a natural speed limit of around 3.5% a year. Attempts to push the economy to go faster through stimulus spending would also speed up inflation."There are too many economic bottle necks right now," says David Beker, a senior economist at Bank of America based in São Paulo.The country's leaders have tried to rely on their ties with other Brics nations to help out economically. President Dilma Rousseff was in Russia to meet with President Vladimir Putin in December 2012 and invited Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev to come to Brazil for the annual Carnival celebration in February.But Brazil's efforts haven't yielded much more than photo ops so far. The biggest disappointment for Brazil has been China's refusal to buy more Brazilian goods. China has declined to allow giant Brazilian ships designed specifically to bring iron ore to Chinese ports to dock, citing safety concerns, though critics say China wants to retain much of the shipping business for Chinese carriers.Russia has its own problem, including the woes of the European Union, Russia's main trading partner and the largest buyer of Russian oil and gas.As for South Africa, the country's violence remains a barrier to growth. Since police shot and killed 34 platinum miners near Johannesburg in August, labor turmoil has crippled the mining industry and hobbled manufacturers. Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and Moody's Investors Service downgraded South Africa's debt in the past three months, saying they feared the government wouldn't be able to quell the unrest and wider social tensions.Looking to give the group more cohesion and economic purpose, the BRIC nations have proposed to create a Brics development bank, but even that effort has come to highlight the group's divisions.Liu Youfa, vice president of the China Institute of International Studies, a Chinese government think tank, attended a September session of Brics academics in Chongqing, China, whose aim was to fill in details of the bank proposal. The bank's financing would be reserved for member nations, including funding for big infrastructure projects and engineering contracts, he said. Construction would benefit China, whose firms build roads, dams and airports around the globe.But other countries have different plans for the bank. South Africa wants the funding to be available for other developing nations. India, which proposed the development bank, likes the idea of infrastructure financing but fears that China wants to run the bank mainly to make yuan loans and further the international use of China's currency, "One country wants to dominate due to its financial standing, which would not be acceptable to the others," said Brahma Chellaney, an analyst with the Centre for Policy Research, a New Delhi think tank.Where to locate the development bank has become another battle. Mr. Liu says India wants the bank headquartered there, while China would "very much appreciate it" if the bank is located in Beijing, Shanghai or Chongqing. China is expected to chip in the largest share of the financing and "money talks," he said. Mr. Liu said he believes the disputes will be ironed out eventually and the Brics bank will be established in the next several years, though not in 2013.'Afghanistan will be much more stable than the countries around it.' -- Rangin Dadfar Spanta, Afghanistan National Security AdviserThe expected drawdown of most U.S. and international troops from Afghanistan by the end of 2014 has spurred anxiety among the country's political elites and ordinary Afghans. On that count, National Security Adviser Rangin Dadfar Spanta appears unflustered. "I don't want people to think 2014 is the end of history in Afghanistan," he says.Afghan troops are slated to take the lead in next summer's fighting season between Taliban insurgents and the government, with U.S. and international troops largely relegated to an advisory and support role. Still, The Afghan government, he said, plans to ask the U.S. and its allies to deliver more modern military hardware, particularly a more capable air force.U.S. and Afghan officials say the request may be a contentious issue in negotiations over a post-2014 U.S. presence."Afghan commanders must fight the Taliban without equal or similar equipment" to coalition forces, he said. "How can I justify that to Afghan soldiers?"By late 2012, a once-stalled peace process between the warring sides showed signs of restarting, with Taliban representatives agreeing to attend a meeting in France with their Northern Alliance foes. But the Afghan government, Mr. Spanta added, cannot allow a carve-up of the country, ceding territory to either the Taliban or regional power brokers. Afghanistan's top leaders, he said, "are absolutely united to preserve the gains of our last decade."Beyond the grim headlines, Mr. Spanta says Afghanistan can point to some tangible achievements, particularly in comparison with its neighbors: A relatively free press, a young and growing urban population less vulnerable to radicalism and recent robust economic growth. "Afghanistan will be much more stable than the countries around it," he says.The prospects for an enduring peace or for broader regional stability, however, remain elusive. "It's very difficult to have a prognosis in this part of the world," he added.'We should avoid any kind of complacency.' -- José Manuel Barroso, President of the European CommissionEurope is clearly in better shape than a year ago, says José Manuel Barroso, president of the European Commission."But for people who say the crisis is over and that the problems are behind us, this is not true. We still have problems and we should avoid any kind of complacency," he says.He acknowledges that economic adjustment is hurting growth, but says the commission will "calibrate our policy response." That suggests it won't rigidly insist that governments hit budget targets they could miss because their economies undershoot expectations.He also expresses concern about a "lack of urgency" to implement commitments for financial regulation. Following a U.S. delay in implementation of tougher capital standards for banks, Mr. Barroso says: "I hope there will not be divergence between the United States and Europe."'Obama may be forced to choose: bombing Iran, or an Iranian bomb.' -- Karim Sadjadpour, Senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace"One of Barack Obama's most urgent challenges in the coming year is to persuade Iran's cynical, inaccessible supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, to pursue a nuclear compromise rather than nuclear weapons," says Karim Sadjadpour of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace."The broad contours of a nuclear deal are somewhat evident: Tehran would cap its uranium enrichment activities, hand over a portion of its enriched uranium stockpile, and agree to routine, robust inspections," Mr. Sadjadpour says. "Washington and Brussels would in turn reduce the severity of sanctions which—along with endemic mismanagement and corruption—have debilitated Iran's economy.""While it's clear than no nuclear deal can be made without Khamenei, it's unclear whether any deal can be made with him," Mr. Sadjadpour says."Khamenei—who hasn't left Iran since 1989—refuses to meet with Western officials, and sees opposition to America and Israel as crucial pillars of his regime's revolutionary ideology. He's long believed that compromising under pressure exhibits weakness, which in turn encourages more pressure. And his understanding of contemporary history is that regimes without nukes (i.e. Iraq and Libya) are more vulnerable to foreign intervention than those with them (i.e. North Korea and Pakistan).""In the absence of a deal, Obama may eventually be forced to choose which option is less dangerous and destabilizing for U.S. interests: bombing Iran or an Iranian bomb."