Cindi Leive, editor in chief of Glamour, was searching for the best way to draw readers’ attention to an article in the November 2011 issue about how women could better organize their closets and bank accounts. “12 ways to get your act together” didn’t have much punch. “12 ways to get your stuff together” also fell flat. So she decided to substitute “act” with a word unprintable here and waited for the angry letters to pour in. They never came.“It appeared I was the last person on planet Earth to care about it,” Ms. Leive said about the decision to put an expletive on a magazine cover. “It has not been an issue.”The long-running debate in women’s magazines — how frank can they be? — seems to have shifted, as editors throughout the industry are sprinkling more curse words on their covers and weaving expletives into the headlines and the copy between the photos of celebrities with flawless skin. For the September 2012 issue, Ms. Leive kept the title of the YouTube series by Graydon Sheppard and Kyle Humphrey about what “Girls Say” on the cover. The full title begins with a four-letter word; Ms. Leive used it, with an asterisk in place of one letter.In the November 2012 issue there was an article, with a headline that included a vulgar word, about workouts to improve the derrière; Ms. Leive kept that word off the cover, however, because she felt it was poor taste to place it next to an interview with President Obama.“The culture has changed, so we’ve changed,” Ms. Leive said. “It’s how our main staff, many who are under 30, talk. Certain words have gone from being shocking to being neutered.”Other editors say that so far they have not received the complaints they expected from readers, nor have they seen a drop in sales because of language. They suspect that magazines are catching up with other media, where women have been using explicit language for years.“Television is probably more accurate in reflecting how people are actually speaking right now,” said Joanna Coles, the editor in chief of Cosmopolitan, who has deliberated when to use vulgar words in her current job and before that as editor in chief of Marie Claire.For many years women’s magazines simply did not allow any strong language, said Bonnie Fuller, the former editor of Cosmopolitan and US Weekly. Now that Ms. Fuller edits the gossip Web site HollywoodLife.com, she is still pretty conservative. She allows certain words if they appear in a direct quotation and often substitutes an asterisk for a vowel. She said curse words didn’t attract younger readers.“It’s irrelevant to them,” she said, adding that if the subjects of articles do curse, readers “don’t want their quotes altered.”Ms. Coles said that when she edited her first cover for Marie Claire in August 2006, she included a headline about jeans that flattered a particular body part, using an explicit reference; readers quickly voiced their disapproval.“A couple of people said to me, ‘You can’t use the word’ ” on the cover, Ms. Coles said. “ ‘Are you planning to cheapen things up? ”Robin Lakoff, a linguistics professor at the University of California, Berkeley, said that women cursing had long been considered “dangerous,” because these words “express anger and act as a substitute for a physical expression of anger.” It’s now more acceptable for women to curse, she added, and for men to express emotion, as President Obama did when he grew tearful when speaking about the Newtown school shootings.“Women can say bad words, in movies, cable TV and writing,” Ms. Lakoff wrote in an e-mail. Men cannot only shed tears, she added, “but are celebrated for doing so.”Attention-starved celebrities also seem to be latching on to this trend. Linda Wells, the editor in chief of Allure, said that she would not use curse words in an editor’s letter or on a magazine cover. But she kept Lady Gaga’s salty quotations about her new perfume — more precisely, about how she did not particularly care about perfume — in an interview in the December issue.Ms. Wells said in the case of Lady Gaga, “it’s part of conveying a personality.” She said that replacing expletives with asterisks would have drawn more attention to the language.“What’s funny is she’s talking about fragrance, and they’re usually so reverential,” Ms. Wells said about celebrities and their perfume lines. “You feel like they’re picking flowers in Grasse.”Cosmopolitan, long the saucy cousin in the women’s magazine family, has always pushed the boundaries of frankness and good taste. The January issue includes an interview with the actor James Van Der Beek from the television sitcom “Don’t Trust the B— in Apartment 23,” and an article with a vulgarity in a headline and a reference to an explicit tweet about Demi Moore’s behind. But Ms. Coles said that she felt uncomfortable putting certain words on the cover and noted that cursing could look unattractive for women.“On paper, swearing takes on a different attitude,” Ms. Coles said. “It can make you sound very angry when you use it a lot.”Stronger language has become so prevalent that it is even trickling into the merchandise that women’s magazines are featuring. Kristin van Ogtrop, managing editor of Real Simple, said that she would only include a curse word on the magazine’s cover “if someone drugged me, and I lost all my faculties.”But in Real Simple’s November issue, she featured a $24 Pinch Provisions Minimergency Kit makeup bag with an obscene abbreviation on the side. She said she received a couple of letters from readers complaining about it. But she said that she also recognized that swearing was now so prevalent that it was difficult to keep its presence out of a magazine.“When you’ve got people like Bloomberg cursing in public, and Chris Christie cursing in public, we have changed as a culture,” Ms. van Ogtrop said.Women’s magazines perhaps haven’t pushed the boundaries enough yet to see whether readers will push back. Graydon Sheppard said that for a long time, he did not receive any complaints about the name of his Web site and Twitter feed. Then when he recently issued the fifth video of the series, a viewer named cindybin2001 shared her impassioned disapproval.“Oh this makes me furious! it is TERRIBLE you use profanity!” she wrote. “How crude and offensive!” Mr. Sheppard apologized, but admits the apology was sarcastic. “Complaining about swear words on the Internet is like complaining about sand in the desert,” he said.In terms of marketing tone, the commercial real estate industry has long played the quiet cousin to the brasher residential business. While apartments are routinely sold using splashy, multifaceted ad campaigns, commercial brokers and developers have favored lower-key, brochure-based approaches.But the two branches of the family may be growing closer. In recent months, the marketing teams for some New York office buildings have decided to get the word out by deploying the type of stylish Web sites once used only by luxury condominiums.Unlike the Web sites of office buildings past, which tended to be bare-bones and buried deep within a landlord’s corporate home page, this new crop stands alone and crackles with animation, exuberant language and videos.And by publicizing details like where telecom cables enter the building, these sites add transparency to a business that can seem clubby and secretive.“Lunches with brokers is an old-school way of getting your message out,” said Grant Greenspan, a broker and principal at the Kaufman Organization, a landlord that has set up Web sites for two of its buildings, 100-104 Fifth Avenue and 550 Seventh Avenue. But, he added, “it’s only as good as the group of brokers who you perceive to have the clients.”By introducing buildings to the public online to generate demand, Mr. Greenspan said, “you get clients going to their brokers and saying, ‘Why aren’t you showing me this building?’ ”The site for 100-104 Fifth Avenue, a pair of joined, early-20th-century buildings near Union Square that Kaufman co-owns with Invesco Real Estate, was also useful in chronicling the $15 million renovation that occurred after the development team bought the property out of bankruptcy in 2010 for $94 million.The renovation, which took two years, included adding a fire safety system and six elevators and redesigning a pair of lobbies. All of this is described in a colorful, animated timeline on the Web site, 100-104fifth.com, as are the specifics about those telecom cables.The Kaufman Organization credited the site with helping to fill the 270,000-square-foot building quickly. It is at 98 percent occupancy today, up from 60 percent when the landlord bought it.According to Mr. Greenspan, all six tenants signed there since 2010 said the site had played a major role in piquing their interest. Those tenants include Yelp, the online review business; Apple’s iAd, an advertising network; and Net-a-Porter, a women’s apparel retailer. They pay rents ranging from $45 to $60 per square foot, Kaufman said.Similarly, at 550 Seventh Avenue, which Kaufman recently began managing for Adler Group, a new Web site is being used to rebrand the 12-story building in the garment district, where fashion tenants have historically held sway.The Web site, 550seventhave.com, may surprise property owners who tend to be tight-lipped about their tenants. It shows the directory in the building’s lobby, revealing that Lilly Pulitzer, Donna Karan International and Oscar de la Renta have offices inside.The site, introduced in October, is already paying off. An 11,000-square-foot space on the 10th floor is expected to be leased this month to a software company, Mr. Greenspan said, adding that the $30,000 cost of making both sites, plus the hours logged by a full-time worker, had been worth every penny.If Web sites “facilitate renting the spaces 60 or 90 days sooner, they make all the sense in the world,” he said.Some major New York landlords, like the Chetrit Group, have no online presence. And even when Web sites do exist, they can be a bit stolid, offering little more than the year the building was completed, its architect and its total square footage, as with the General Motors Building, owned by Boston Properties. Brokers say that when a high-rise has existed for years and is one of Manhattan’s prized addresses as well, it may not have to promote itself online.A new office building must do more, especially when it hasn’t even come out of the ground yet. In those cases, a Web site is essential to allow tenants to visualize their future home, said Christopher V. Albanese, president of the Albanese Organization, a Long Island-based developer. These sites tend to be extremely eye-catching and could easily be mistaken for ones intended to sell multimillion-dollar condos.In November, the Albanese Organization unveiled 510w22.com, for 510 West 22nd Street, a planned 170,000-square-foot office building in West Chelsea. The centerpiece of the artful Web site is a four-minute video narrated by the architect Rick Cook, which brims with dramatic music and soaring shots of the adjacent High Line.Creating such a Hollywood-caliber product, which includes renderings that normally would not have been commissioned, doubled the building’s marketing budget — “but without it, tenants might think that this was just some ordinary building, and it really isn’t,” Mr. Albanese said.Also, financing for the $150 million project cannot be secured until the building is 30 percent leased, he said, making a dynamic marketing tool all the more important.Though online videos for commercial real estate are not widespread, they are gaining in popularity.The Web site for 7 Bryant Park, a 28-story office building that Hines is developing on Avenue of the Americas, features a two-minute video. A piano tinkles; the camera swoops.The site, 7bryantpark.com, introduced last winter, has not led to leases yet, but George C. Lancaster, Hines’s senior vice president of communications, said to expect similar branding for future projects. Web sites are “the first place anybody goes these days to shop for clothes or office space,” he said.Brian Lindvall, a partner at Dbox, which made Hines’s video and the Web site for 510 West 22nd Street, agreed. Commercial assignments are coming in more frequently, he said, including one for the International Gem Tower, an Extell Development Company project at 50 West 47th Street.Multimedia Web sites “have kind of been a residential tactic for a while,” said Mr. Lindvall, who has worked on apartment projects for Rudin Management and Forest City Ratner. “I think that relaying square footage and location is not enough to convey what a building represents.”Like sites for condos, commercial real estate sites can seem to hawk lifestyles rather than places to put sofas or desks.For example, businesses are urged to lease space at 837 Washington Street, under construction in the meatpacking district, because of its proximity to the new Whitney Museum and an Apple store — and, 837washington.com says, “because when fashion arrived, restaurateurs and hoteliers followed.”The six-story, 55,000-square-foot, $100 million project is expected to be completed in 2014. Asking rents for the offices are $100 per square foot, said Paul E. Pariser, co-chief executive of Taconic Investment Partners, which is developing the building with Thor Equities.According to Mr. Pariser, who sold 111 Eighth Avenue to Google in 2010, the tech companies that will most likely rent the space care about the hipness of their neighborhood. “They don’t want some stuffy image that says, ‘I have a Madison Avenue address,’ ” he said.If Web sites help landlords leapfrog brokers to some degree by taking their message to the masses, the brokers don’t seem overly concerned.Bruce Mosler, co-chairman of the brokerage firm Cushman & Wakefield, said he was glad technology had advanced enough to portray large offices compellingly online. He added that condos were ahead of the game only because apartments are simpler to depict.Besides, brokers still need to be at the negotiating table when a lease is signed. “It will allow the product to get to the market more quickly,” Mr. Mosler said. “This town recognizes the value of what brokerages and brokers can provide.”If only he’d arrived a couple of centuries earlier, Bill Pullman might be considered, well, a little less odd.Instead, he lamented good-naturedly the other day, his life appears to be “a patchwork quilt of bizarre, disparate obsessions.” An actor in more than 50 films, he has a fondness for trombones, vaudeville and things agricultural — like cattle, barns, tractors and, the subject of a lot of attention lately, his orchard.“If I were born in the 1700s, I would look like a rounded man,” he said in a phone interview from his dwelling in the Hollywood Hills, with its terraced grove of more than 100 varieties of fruit-bearing plants. “Jefferson defined a home as being a house and a garden. I think I was born out of my time.”He considered for a moment. “Well, maybe the time is coming back to me.”Or maybe it’s already here. On Jan. 10 Mr. Pullman, 59, will tackle his first lead in a comedy series — and his second as commander in chief, after the 1996 film “Independence Day” — when he stars as President Dale Gilchrist in “1600 Penn” on NBC.On Jan. 17 he’ll open the Sundance Film Festival as an American diplomat who re-enters the life of his estranged daughter for her wedding in Jordan in the drama “May in the Summer,” starring Cherien Dabis, who wrote and directed it.But it’s “The Fruit Hunters,” Yung Chang’s documentary about zealots pursuing the exotic and the succulent to the ends of the earth, that was giving Mr. Pullman pause. The movie, inspired by the 2008 book by Adam Leith Gollner, will have its American premiere at the Palm Springs International Film Festival on Friday.“Who is the greatest actor in film right now?” Josh Gad, a creator and a star of “1600 Penn,” recalled being asked by an acting teacher when he was a student at Carnegie Mellon University.“And she said, ‘Bill Pullman, because he has this unbelievable ability to swing the pendulum and capture the essence of humanity in every one of his roles,’ ” he said.That humanity may be captured nowhere quite as lucidly, or as self-consciously, as in “The Fruit Hunters,” in which Mr. Pullman — gravelly voice and fathomless eyes on full display, along with a closetful of plaid shirts — holds his own among the cultivators, smugglers and epicures whose lustiest ardor seems reserved for a mouthful of flesh and juice.Here he is at a Florida auction, bidding hundreds of dollars for a plate of mangoes. There he is in Hawaii, bushwhacking through the jungle in search of ice cream bean and water apple and bilimbi.“I know Bill Pullman as a veteran Hollywood actor, but I’m not sure that acting is really his main passion,” Mr. Chang says in the voice-over.Mr. Pullman said: “I didn’t bust him on that, but people are always touching different parts of the elephant, and they think they define the elephant. Some people think I’m obsessed with working with old tractors, others see that in my free time I’m putting on these vaudevilles, and Yung gets to think that I’m obsessed about fruit.”“The thing about acting is it’s the one that lets me get immersed in the other things,” he added. “I always come back to acting.”Mr. Chang’s assumption is understandable. In 2009, as he was pondering a way to translate into film Mr. Gollner’s book — a paean to the world’s myriad, frequently awe-inspiring fruits and those who have worshiped them — he read a New York Times profile that included a tour of Mr. Pullman’s orchard.“I immediately felt this punch in the gut that perhaps fate was calling,” Mr. Chang said. “And Bill, without knowing anything about my background, invited us out to his home and asked us to stay with him for a week to find an angle in.”The film shows Mr. Pullman toiling in his orchard and later in his kitchen as he gleefully concocts white sapote ice cream: “Get ready to have a taste sensation that I know you have never had before, chez Bill.”That so much of his home — and himself — is on display has incited a bit of after-the-fact consternation.“It’s more about privacy,” Mr. Pullman said. “I don’t like this instinct of reality television to wear your lifestyle in public. I’ve really always loved the anonymity of things.”Still, he was prepared to let down his guard for the sake of the Hollywood Orchard, a nonprofit, neighborhood-centric organization he helped found in 2011 that gleans unpicked fruit from trees to be donated to food pantries or processed at pop-up cooking facilities on the street.“What is it Hemingway said?” Mr. Pullman asks in the film. “ ‘You can only love one woman and one piece of land truly in one lifetime.’ ”The woman is easy. The land is trickier. In the early 1990s, a decade after he stopped teaching theater at Montana State University, Mr. Pullman bought a ranch near Cardwell, Mont., and last summer presented a vaudeville show about the drought in a garage he’d transformed into a performance space, near a barn he’d converted into a house. It includes a suspended performance floor for his wife of 26 years, the dancer Tamara Hurwitz Pullman, with whom he has a daughter and two sons.In Hartsville, N.Y., a few miles from his hometown, Hornell, Mr. Pullman turned another barn into a community center, where he has hosted tractor square dancing, in which the machines do-si-do and promenade the way people would on foot. Banners symbolize solidarity: red for International Harvester, orange for Allis-Chalmers and green for John Deere.“It was so gonzo,” he said. “The men drove, and the women carried flags, and they looked like mighty Amazon goddesses coming in.”Not far away is the site of Mr. Pullman’s first orchard, planted when he was 13, a few years after his mother, a nurse, had her first psychiatric breakdown, and his father, a doctor, was dealing with problems of his own.An orchard meant serenity, he said. An orchard meant health.Late in “The Fruit Hunters,” Mr. Pullman shakes a branch of one of the 18 trees there, “a zone that you could create and control, when everything else was out of control,” he recalls. He picks up an apple, takes a bite and gazes heavenward.“This is good,” he says.Amar’e Stoudemire will make his season debut for the Knicks on Tuesday night, coming off the bench against the Portland Trail Blazers at Madison Square Garden.Coach Mike Woodson could not say for sure how many minutes he would play Stoudemire, who had surgery on his left knee in October.“We’ve just got to gauge his minutes and ease him back in,” Woodson said. “He’ll come off the bench tonight and we’ll gauge it as the game goes along.”Stoudemire averaged 17.5 points and 7.8 rebounds in 47 games last season, and his arrival does come at an opportune time. Carmelo Anthony, who missed the past two games with a hyperextended left knee, will be back in the lineup; however, the Knicks are still without guard Raymond Felton (broken pinkie) and forward Rasheed Wallace (stress fracture in left foot).Still, Woodson said it was unlikely Stoudemire would play close to 30 minutes.“We’ve just got to slowly work him back in,” Woodson said.Stoudemire was originally expected to return Christmas Day, when they Knicks played the Lakers in Los Angeles. He practiced Sunday and Monday and said he was willing to risk playing at 80 percent in order to help out his team.Woodson said he was not sure yet how the team’s rotations might alter with Stoudemire’s return. “I’ll tinker with him tonight,” Woodson said. “I’ve got some ideas, but those ideas always change.”Whether Stoudemire, a six-time All-Star, will come off the bench or return to the starting lineup down the road remains uncertain. Woodson said he was not ready to make a decision on that.“Just get him through the game and ready for practice tomorrow,” Woodson said.Not that long ago the Metropolitan Opera’s default idea for a New Year’s Eve gala was to dust off its production of Johann Strauss’s frothy “Fledermaus,” with guest stars singing a favorite Puccini aria or Cole Porter song during the party scene, and free Champagne for the audience in the lobby after the show.But on Monday night the Met and its general manager, Peter Gelb, came up with a far more serious way to ring in the new year: a company premiere production of Donizetti’s “Maria Stuarda,” the challenging bel canto tragedy that recounts the clash between Queen Elizabeth I and Mary Stuart (Mary, Queen of Scots) and ends with the anguished Mary heading to the executioner’s block. Yet if you think of a gala as a meaningful celebration, then it was hard to imagine a better New Year’s Eve gift to opera lovers than this musically splendid and intensely dramatic performance of “Maria Stuarda.”The production stars the great American mezzo-soprano Joyce DiDonato in the title role, a part that has been sung by sopranos and mezzo-sopranos. Ms. DiDonato’s performance will be pointed to as a model of singing in which all components of the art form — technique, sound, color, nuance, diction — come together in service to expression and eloquence.Directed by David McVicar, this production takes a traditional approach, but with some vivid colors and stark imagery to lend a contemporary touch to the period sets and costumes by John Macfarlane. In the opening scene at the Palace of Whitehall in London, where Elizabeth’s subjects are celebrating what they think will be her acceptance of a marriage proposal from the king of France’s brother, the set evokes a spacious 16th-century hall. But the wood-paneled walls and the matrix of rafters are an eerie blood red, and the revelers are decked out in creamy white dresses and suits that look strangely matched.In the second scene, in a park outside the prison at Fotheringhay Castle, where Elizabeth has had Mary confined, the trees are like branchless sticks against grim, gray skies. Yet we see the forest through the eyes of Ms. DiDonato’s Mary, who — allowed out to meet Elizabeth — is deeply touched to be back in open spaces amid nature.Mr. McVicar’s production is hardly a bold take on the opera. But better to have something traditional than a half-baked concept. His staging is more visually striking and imaginative than what he came up with for Donizetti’s “Anna Bolena,” which opened the 2011-12 season, the first installment of the Met’s planned presentation of Donizetti’s Tudor trilogy, of which “Maria Stuarda” is the second. (“Roberto Devereux” will be next.)This production has the right conductor in the pit: Maurizio Benini, who has long brought a sure hand and insight to bel canto works. He draws a supple and glowing performance from the orchestra and the chorus. Mr. Benini understands that in Donizetti what may sound like a standard oompah-pah accompaniment is an integral musical element that lifts a melody, provides harmonic and rhythmic substance, and offers flexible support to the singers.The cast is excellent. In a notable Met debut, Elza van den Heever, a 33-year-old South African soprano whose career is rising internationally, is a vocally burnished and emotionally tempestuous Elizabeth (Elisabetta). Her sound, with its earthy tinge and quick vibrato, is not conventionally beautiful. But her voice has penetrating depth and character. She turns flights of coloratura passagework into bursts of jealousy and defiance as Elizabeth contends with the threat that Mary, a blood relative, poses to her reign in England.In her final scene, in which Elizabeth orders Mary’s death, Ms. van den Heever, in cumbersome queenly regalia, almost waddled around her palace room, looking physically shaken by the course she could see no way around. This may have been a bit of overacting. But I admired the rawness and vulnerability of Ms. van den Heever’s performance. She was so committed to this role that she shaved her head, the better to accommodate the queen’s elaborate wigs. And her bright, intense voice sliced through the orchestra whenever the queen’s ire was provoked.Matthew Polenzani, who is becoming the Met’s go-to tenor in bel canto repertory (he was wonderful as Nemorino in the company’s new production of Donizetti’s “Elisir d’Amore,” which opened the season) brings melting sound and appealing vulnerability to the role of the hapless Robert Dudley (Roberto), the Earl of Leicester.He is caught between love for the doomed Mary and entangled feelings for the imperious Elizabeth, and early scenes in “Maria Stuarda” suggest a typical bel canto romantic triangle. But his character fades into the background as the story increasingly focuses on Mary’s plight. Still, in early scenes, he must do a lot of fancy, ardent singing, and Mr. Polenzani embraced the challenge, singing with verve, crispness and poignancy.Matthew Rose brings a robust bass voice and dignified presence to the role of George Talbot (Giorgio), the Earl of Shrewsbury, who is loyal to Mary. The baritone Joshua Hopkins captures the mix of genuine concern and political calculation that drives William Cecil (Guglielmo), Elizabeth’s secretary of state. And the rich-voiced mezzo-soprano Maria Zifchak is touching as Jane Kennedy (Anna), Mary’s devoted lady-in-waiting.With a libretto by Giuseppe Bardari, based on a play by Schiller, the opera gives a very idealized portrait of Mary, Queen of Scots, who was no slouch when it came to political machinations. A 19th-century Italian audience of Donizetti’s day would have rooted for her as a Roman Catholic who stands up to a Protestant queen and becomes a martyr for her religion.In her first scene, when Mary is given a moment of freedom and sees the fields and the trees, Ms. DiDonato infuses her lines with a tender mix of nobility, uncertainty and sadness. When Mary feels happy for a moment, as in her youth, Ms. DiDonato sings the word “felice” with heartbreaking wistfulness.Though history tells us that Mary and Elizabeth never met, Donizetti, following Schiller, gives them an intense scene of confrontation. How could he resist presenting his audience with dueling divas?At first, Mary tries to win Elizabeth’s sympathy. But soon the two queens go at it, rivals not just for the English throne but also for Leicester’s love. And Ms. DiDonato summons white-hot fury when she curses Elizabeth, calling her a “vile bastard,” a phrase that contributed to the initial problems the work faced from Italian censors.In the last extended scene, Donizetti excelled himself. Facing her execution, Mary confesses her sins to Talbot, then, surrounded by faithful servants, leads a noble, prayerful chorus as good as anything in Verdi. As Mary has a last moment with the guilt-ridden Leicester and bids Jane farewell, the music goes on and on, with what seems like aria after aria. But Donizetti knew what he was doing, and his inspired score carries every shift of emotion and drama.Ms. DiDonato is simply magnificent, singing with plush richness and aching beauty. At a few moments, from the collective sounds of the subdued chorus and orchestra, a pianissimo high note, almost inaudible, emerged from Ms. DiDonato’s voice, slowly blooming in sound and throbbing richness. I left the house not just moved but renewed, and ready to celebrate the arrival of a new year.Millions of immigrants head to the United States each year. And millions more would if they could get a visa. Yet, more and more Americans complain of a sense that the cards are stacked against the middle class — and, more devastatingly, its children.It’s not just sky-high college costs, especially compared with Western European universities, or the substantial difference between the amount of state support in Europe and the United States of everything from health care to child care to education — whether Europe’s social generosity is sustainable over the long term or not.Many Americans — both in the United States and abroad — are concerned that the heart of the American Dream, the belief that, as former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice often puts it, in America “it doesn’t matter where you come from, but where you’re going,” is less and less true.A provocative set of statistics in a column by the New York Times opinion contributor Steven Rattner makes the case.Over the last decade or two, the American middle has been hollowed out, with an affluent, well-educated class growing on one side of the divide and a poor and working-class majority on the other, faced with limited opportunities to change their circumstances.Not unlike the view that many Americans have of a traditional European lack of social and economic mobility: if your father was a farmer or a factory worker, chances are you will be a farmer or a factory worker.One of the most eye-popping statistics reported by Mr. Rattner, is that 93 percent of all income growth in the U.S. in 2010 went to the top 1 percent of Americans. And 37 percent went to the top .01 percent. He writes:Also astonishing: just 15,000 households received 37 percent of all of those income gains. In no other period in recent American history have economic gains been concentrated so disproportionately in an elite sliver.And the tax-and-spending deal to avert the so-called fiscal cliff does little to slow America’s increasing wealth disparity.To the Editor:Re “Walking the Tightrope on Mental Health Coverage,” by Ron Lieber (Your Money column, Business Day, Dec. 22):As the article detailed, having mental health coverage that is affordable and accessible is an essential need.As a person with a psychiatric disability, I have faced continuous coverage denials, gaps in insurance coverage and formularies that did not include necessary medications. Other people I have known did not have the knowledge or assistance to enable them to contest these denials, and went without coverage.Many appropriate steps are being taken to resolve this pressing issue. But until it is addressed with overriding legislation, these types of concerns will continue.Because mental health coverage is needed to maintain a person’s ability to achieve stability and everyday functioning and remain in the community, resolving this should be a legislative priority.CARL HERRTo the Editor:Re “Another Try at Nuclear Negotiations” (editorial, Dec. 24): With President Obama’s re-election, it is time to drop the pose of toughness and make a realistic nuclear offer to Iran. Only a negotiated settlement can both deter an Iranian nuclear weapons program and avoid another war that the United States cannot afford, a war that would plunge the region into further chaos and only stiffen Tehran’s resolve to build a bomb.We must acknowledge Iran’s right under the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty to enrich uranium for nuclear power, a point of Iranian national pride shared by much of the Iranian opposition. And in return for verifiable curbs on weaponization, Washington should offer to lift broad sanctions that hurt the Iranian people far more than the regime.We should work toward a Middle East free of nuclear weapons — including Israel’s undeclared nuclear arsenal.DAVID KEPPELRe “Our Failed Approach to Schizophrenia,” by Paul Steinberg (Op-Ed, Dec. 26):As a clinical psychiatrist, I found Dr. Steinberg’s article troubling. It is a common problem in our field that psychiatrists speak of schizophrenia as if it were a well-understood condition, with a clear pathology and clear, effective treatment.In fact, our understanding of this phenomenon is evolving and unsettled. What we call schizophrenia is probably a syndrome with many causes, and with a wide range of outcomes, with and without treatment. Many people do benefit from standard treatments, but many do not — and many find these treatments objectionable because of metabolic and other toxicities.Moreover, many people find the current system of mental health delivery to be disrespectful, coercive and violent. It would be hard to imagine forced treatment for other medical conditions, like cancer or cardiovascular disease.It has been my experience that when people are treated in a respectful way, offering options and choices rather than dictating treatment, better outcomes occur. Similarly, when we doctors are honest about the limitations of our knowledge, and humble about the power of our proffered treatments, there is more room for the person at the center of concern to find a path of care that can be helpful and effective.For a tiny minority of patients, with substantial histories of violence, it is appropriate that the legal system, after an adversarial process, compel patients to accept treatment against their will.I am worried that Dr. Steinberg’s article communicates more certainty about the nature and treatment of schizophrenia than is warranted, and makes too little room for patients and their families to make informed choices about care.CHRISTOPHER GORDONTo the Editor:Wall Street high rollers inflate prices to astronomical levels. Chinese, Russian and Latin American tycoons, eager to find a good place to park their money, horn in on the action. And journalists uncritically gush about “blue-chip investments” that many knowledgeable observers consider outright junk.Abstruse derivatives? No. Contemporary art. This November, auctions at Sotheby’s and Christie’s together brought in $787.3 million. Amid a financial crisis, no less.In 1971 the Metropolitan Museum of Art bought Velázquez’s “Portrait of Juan de Pareja” for $5.5 million ($31.4 million in 2012 dollars), then the highest price ever paid for a work of art at auction. Scholars recognized the portrait as one of the world’s greatest paintings, yet the price, perceived by many as excessive, sparked considerable debate.So how in the world did we get to the point where people pay tens of millions of dollars for works by the likes of Andy Warhol, Jeff Koons, Jean-Michel Basquiat and Damien Hirst?Do the skyrocketing prices reflect, as one might assume in a free market, the connoisseurship of an exclusive clique of brilliant collectors and their prescient art advisers? I think not.Financiers know the value of hype. They understand that if artworks sell at exorbitant prices, those works — and the artists who created them — become newsworthy, regardless of whether they’re actually any good. And the media play right along, almost never questioning the quality of the works or the abilities of the artists.Historically, time has been very cruel to the reputations of all but the very best artists. But today enormous sums of money are devoted to propping up the star power of a small group of wildly overrated cult figures. Have the masters of the universe created the unpoppable bubble? Or will the child’s voice somehow manage to rise above the buzz and proclaim that the emperor is, as many have suspected all along, buck naked?Time will tell.WILLIAM COLE