THIS New Year’s, a good number of those who struggle to control their drinking will resolve to abstain from alcohol. No halfway measures. Quitting is the only way.The cold-turkey approach is deeply rooted in the United States, embraced by doctors, the multibillion-dollar treatment industry and popular culture. For nearly 80 years, our approach to drinking problems has been inspired by the 12 steps of Alcoholics Anonymous.Developed in the 1930s by men who were “chronic inebriates,” the A.A. program offers a single path to recovery: abstinence, surrendering one’s ego and accepting one’s “powerlessness” over alcohol.But it’s not the only way to change your drinking habits.Bankole Johnson, an alcohol researcher and consultant to pharmaceutical companies who is also the chairman of the Department of Psychiatry at the University of Maryland School of Medicine, puts it this way: “We are wedded to the abstinence model as the goal, despite evidence that there can be many successful outcomes.”Because of the promise of anonymity, A.A. doesn’t track its members or conduct research. Some studies have found that many members find support for healthier habits from a like-minded group of nondrinkers. But a systematic review found “no conclusive evidence to show that A.A. can help patients to achieve abstinence.”Research shows that many problem drinkers — those who repeatedly drink more than they intend, sometimes have physical or psychological consequences from overdrinking, and may have difficulty controlling themselves — could benefit from brief interventions and practical advice about how to set better limits and change their drinking by cutting back.Women increasingly need help, as their drinking has escalated. Women are being stopped more for drunken driving than they were two decades ago. They’re also the biggest consumers of wine, buying the larger share of the 856 million gallons sold in the United States in 2012. These women are drinking partly because alcohol is a socially respectable way to slog through the smartphone-tethered universe of managing demanding careers, aging parents, kids’ activities and relationships at once. And while it’s not healthy to pour yourself a third or fourth glass every night, it doesn’t mean you’re powerless to do anything about it.Elsewhere in the developed world, doctors treat drinking problems with evidence-based tools that best match the client’s needs. Many are prescribed drugs such as naltrexone, an opioid antagonist approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 1994 to treat alcohol use disorders. It blocks the signals released when consuming alcohol.American doctors typically prescribe drugs with the goal of abstinence. Yet in Finland, the American psychologist John David Sinclair pioneered a radically different protocol for naltrexone: he instructs patients to take the drug — which is available generically — an hour before drinking. Mr. Sinclair calls his method “pharmacological extinction.” When people drink while taking naltrexone, the drug blocks the rewards produced by drinking and the cravings diminish. In published research, Mr. Sinclair has claimed a 78 percent success rate in reducing drinking. A drug similar to naltrexone, nalmefene, was recently approved in Europe to help heavy drinkers moderate their habits.In reporting my book on women and drinking, I found that many women were successful in changing their drinking habits by using Moderation Management, a free nonprofit support group for nondependent problem drinkers who want to control their consumption. Using the techniques of cognitive behavioral therapy, M.M. encourages members to take “personal responsibility for choosing and maintaining their own path, whether moderation or abstinence.” It instructs drinkers to abstain for 30 days, reintroduce alcohol while evaluating the effects of drinking, and then stick within limits (for women, that’s nine drinks a week, no more than three on any day).This approach isn’t for severely dependent drinkers, for whom abstinence might be best. But it’s been empirically shown to work for those on the more moderate end of the spectrum who outnumber dependent drinkers by about four to one — including the majority of women who drink too much. While the ratio of men to women in A.A. is roughly 2:1, that figure is reversed among users of an evidence-based Internet application at moderatedrinking.com. The website helps drinkers set limits, self-monitor while they’re drinking, get feedback on their progress and identify and manage triggers to overdrinking. Reid K. Hester, director of research at Behavior Therapy Associates, which designed the program, says heavy drinkers are more likely to be honest about their consumption when they know they won’t be reproached.Few master these skills overnight, Mr. Hester says, but most learn healthier habits within six months. And mistakes can be lessons, not failures.We don’t treat cancer, depression or asthma with the same tools we used in 1935. We need to get away from the one-size-fits-all approach to drinking problems.HONOLULU — Kenji and Hiromasa Ozawa, a father and son vacationing on the island of Oahu, spent Christmas morning hiking up Diamond Head, a volcanic cone here with sweeping views of Waikiki Beach.Their next stop: The Royal Hawaiian Shooting Club — an indoor shooting range in an upscale shopping center just above Cartier and Hermès stores — where they fired off several dozen rounds between them.“We love shooting guns, I love shooting guns,” said Kenji Ozawa, 52, who was visiting from Chiba, Japan. “It’s a very exciting experience.”Japan has among the most restrictive gun laws in the world, especially compared with those of the United States. Japan’s 1958 Firearms and Swords Control Law prohibits its citizens from owning most firearms; some guns — like shotguns for hunting, air guns and guns for competition — are allowed, but the Japanese still must undergo a series of comprehensive tests, as well as thorough background checks.So for some Japanese tourists like the Ozawas, an ideal Hawaiian getaway includes sun, surf — and semiautomatics.“We can’t fire guns in Japan; we are prohibited from having them,” the elder Mr. Ozawa said, before summarizing the Second Amendment’s right to bear arms and adding: “This is the America I know.”Though the Japanese do not necessarily travel to Hawaii, a roughly seven-hour flight, for the sole purpose of hitting Waikiki’s gun clubs, those with an interest in, say, Berettas, often treat shooting a bit like surfing — an amusing attraction while visiting the United States.“In most countries mass media does make guns desirable, and that’s the same in Japan,” said Philip Alpers, a professor at the University of Sydney School of Public Health and a specialist in firearm injury prevention. Hawaii, he said, is “right at sort of the satellite hub of what exists of Japan’s gun culture.”Taka Maruyama, 52, of Tokyo, was leaving the SWAT Gun Club here on a recent Tuesday with two of his sons and explained, “We just come here for swimming and golf and shooting.” Gesturing at his son Tomo, 17, who was proudly holding a paper target riddled with bullets near the bull’s-eye, Mr. Maruyama laughed and said: “Every time he visits somewhere, he shoots. He’s a professional shooter.”There are at least four private gun clubs within a half-mile of one another on this Honolulu strip dotted with hotels and touristy shops, and a public shooting range sits at the southeast tip of the island. The clubs advertise with posters (in English and Japanese) in the upscale malls here, and they hire men to pass out fliers (also in English and Japanese) along the busy sidewalks of Waikiki.Jeff Tarumi, the range manager at the Royal Hawaiian Shooting Club, estimates that 90 percent of his customers are foreign, with the majority from Japan. He said that all of the club’s employees are required to speak at least a little Japanese.“Believe it or not, knowledge of guns is not as important, because you can train them on the job, but you have to speak Japanese,” Mr. Tarumi said. “The U.S. market is a little harder, because people come in here and say, ‘Well, I can shoot for free in my backyard.’ ”The clubs, in which visitors can shoot everything from AK-47s to 9-millimeter Glocks, prove especially alluring to Japanese tourists, who often have seen guns in movies and on television, but cannot actually shoot them at home.David B. Kopel, the author of “The Samurai, the Mountie, and the Cowboy: Should America Adopt the Gun Controls of Other Democracies?” said, “The only law-abiding citizens in Japan who own guns are very highly motivated sportsmen.”In 2012, nearly 1.5 million Japanese visited Hawaii, making them third in total visitor expenditures and visitor days, according to an annual report by the Hawaii Tourism Authority.“How many people would come to Hawaii and end up going to the gun clubs? Tens of thousands,” said Harvey F. Gerwig, president of the Hawaii Rifle Association. “It’s a huge draw.”Hawaii is hardly the Wild West of firearms. The state has stricter gun regulations than many of its mainland counterparts, and was given a B+ for its gun laws by the Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. The gun clubs all provide eye and ear protection, along with instructors trained in gun safety. They will not allow people who have been drinking onto shooting ranges.But especially compared with Japan, visiting gun clubs here is still relatively easy, and the Japanese are not the only ones adding an hour or two at the shooting range to their vacation itineraries. Tourists from other countries with more stringent gun regulations — like Australia, Canada and New Zealand — can also be found in Waikiki’s gun clubs, where basic packages run as low as $25. A midrange option at the Hawaii Gun Club — a total of five guns with 52 shots — costs about $70.Last week, Marcia Murphy, 58, and Bethany Parr, 38, a mother and daughter vacationing in Hawaii from Australia, had treated themselves to manicures and pedicures before heading to the Royal Hawaiian Shooting Club. (“Tacti-cute,” said an instructor of their painted nails, a word play on tactical weapons.)“I’ve never ever touched a gun in my life before,” Ms. Murphy said, still exhilarated after learning that she was a deft sharpshooter for a novice.Ms. Parr was equally enthusiastic. “It was a total high,” she said.The two had shot six guns, and done quite well, though Ms. Murphy had hit slightly more of her targets than Ms. Parr.Turning to her daughter, Ms. Murphy could not help gloating. “I’m going to rub it in, dear,” she said with a smile.Mr. Ozawa was similarly complimentary. “We are enjoying America,” he said.Maxim Pozdorovkin thought that once he made it past the airport in Moscow, he’d be home free. Mr. Pozdorovkin is a director, with Mike Lerner, of the documentary “Pussy Riot: A Punk Prayer,” and after two members of that Russian activist group were released from prison in late December, they all put together a screening of the film in their home country, Russia. It was to be the film’s first showing there, and the first time the two group members, Maria Alyokhina and Nadezhda Tolokonnikova, were to see the documentary, which traces the story of their collective from little-known artists to globally famous political rebels.But hours after Mr. Pozdorovkin arrived, with copies of the film secreted in his luggage, the screening, set for Sunday at the Gogol Center, a state-financed theater, was formally banned by an official from the city’s culture ministry. The reason, laid out in a letter that a director of the theater posted online, was that the work’s implicit anti-Kremlin message didn’t belong in a government building, and that it had no cultural merit. Art, the official wrote, was meant to improve the state of the world, and Pussy Riot did no such thing. Mr. Pozdorovkin and the women were gleeful at the suggestion.“Pussy Riot: A Punk Prayer” is one of 15 films that have made the Academy’s shortlist for possible Oscar nominations in the documentary category. (In light of that, Mr. Pozdorovkin said, the idea that it had no cultural merit is especially laughable.) Amid a roster that includes family and sports stories, it is also not the only film that made waves internationally for its politically tinged message, a reminder that for all the pageantry, Oscar-bound films also shine a light on weighty, often life-threatening situations around the world. Several document social and political changes that are unfolding around them — sometimes in real time.“We’re provocateurs,” Mr. Pozdorovkin hooted Saturday night in a phone interview, as he and the women gathered in a supporter’s apartment in Moscow. The ban quickly became a hot topic in Russia: Ms. Alyokhina and Ms. Tolokonnikova were already in the spotlight after their two-year prison sentence, for performing a protest song in a Moscow cathedral, was unexpectedly commuted by the Kremlin. Their release, at odds with the screening ban, could make a fitting coda to the movie, except that their story will likely continue to evolve.Likewise, “The Square,” set around the protests in Tahrir Square in Cairo, may also involve a continuing narrative. The film was retooled often between 2011 and 2013, as the director, Jehane Noujaim, struggled to keep up with the historic uprising in her native Egypt. The final cut won several awards on the festival circuit, including one at the Dubai International Film Festival in December, but still has trouble playing in the Middle East. It was to be shown at a festival in Cairo in December, but the screening was canceled at the last minute.“Getting the permit to screen the film was very difficult,” festival organizers said in a statement, adding that although they were granted authorization, they were not able to obtain an Arabic-translated version of the film in time. Some Egyptians speculated that this excuse was just that, a cover for government pressure.Ms. Noujaim has not commented on the Cairo cancellation directly, but as she told my colleague Larry Rohter after returning from Dubai in December, “the film is still in censorship, we have not been given official permission to release it” in Egypt.“Why we still have censorship after going through a revolution is a whole other question,” she added. “But the film was sent to censorship two and a half months ago, and what you need in order to show the film in a theater and in public spaces for large audiences is an official letter allowing you to do so. They have not issued that letter.”“The Square” has been shown privately in Egypt, Ms. Noujaim said, and the delay in theatrical release has drawn attention. “It is putting the film on an international stage, so that the authorities in Egypt are starting to get phone calls and questions about why the rest of the world is allowed to see this film about a crucially important chapter in Egyptian history, and it’s not being shown to the Egyptian people,” she said.“The Act of Killing,” about Indonesian death squads, has been available for free download in that country since September, its filmmakers said. “We want you to screen it, discuss it, distribute it to friends across the archipelago,” the director, Joshua Oppenheimer, wrote in a statement on the film’s website. “I made this film in collaboration with over 60 anonymous Indonesians who, like you, wanted to know the truth about their history, and to understand how impunity for past atrocities underpins a present day regime of corruption, thuggery and terror. We worked together for seven years to open a space in which you can discuss these issues without fear, in the hope that it will help you in your struggle for truth, reconciliation, and justice.”As the documentary has racked up prizes on the festival circuit, Mr. Oppenheimer has dedicated them to his co-director, who must still remain anonymous for fear of reprisal.Even films made on American soil have faced opposition. “Blackfish,” about the potential danger of keeping killer whales captive, has received scathing responses from Sea World, owner of the theme park where an orca killed a trainer in 2010. (Perhaps because it was adapted from a best-selling book by the journalist Jeremy Scahill, “Dirty Wars,” about covert United States government operations around the world, has received fairly little blowback.)In the Oscar race, these films are in competition with comparatively lighter fare, like “20 Feet From Stardom,” a crowd-pleasing hit about backup singers; “Cutie and the Boxer,” a sensitive portrait of an artist couple in New York; and “Stories We Tell,” the actress-director Sarah Polley’s investigation of her own family. The Academy will unveil the five nominees for best documentary, along with the other Oscar categories, on Jan. 16.The reach of a nomination is such that, in 2010, even a monk imprisoned in Burma, where the media is deeply censored by the government, heard about the honor for the documentary “Burma VJ,” about a political uprising there. (“The Cove,” about illegal dolphin hunting in Japan, won that year.) One of Ms. Noujaim’s subjects, upon learning that the film made just the Oscar shortlist, grew exuberant, she said, and exclaimed: “I just want to run down the street yelling and screaming. I don’t know what to do with myself, because it means that our story, what we are fighting for, will never be able to be squashed or obliterated or suppressed.”The director herself added, “I’ve never felt before that getting this far in an Oscar campaign is so crucially important to a film and its ability to affect what’s happening on the ground as we speak.”The ban on “A Punk Prayer” in Moscow only served to draw more attention to the film, Mr. Pozdorovkin noted. He didn’t have much sense of how it would affect his Oscar chances. For the time being, he was just enjoying getting to know his subjects, who were mostly imprisoned while he made the documentary.“It was just such a thrill to hang out with them,” he wrote in an email on New Year’s Day, “and to see how my projections (while working on the film) line up with the reality.”They are already planning another Russian screening early this year, in a private venue this time. “To ban that, they would have to present criminal charges,” Mr. Pozdorovkin said.Acting, like spying, is the art of lying persuasively.And the British must be better liars, because they are constantly chosen to play Americans on American television shows. Their spies are obviously more interesting — Kim Philby, the infamous British intelligence mole, was a far more complicated and intriguing double agent than Aldrich Ames, the wormy counterintelligence officer who sold secrets to Moscow even after the Soviet Union collapsed.“The Assets,” an eight-part ABC mini-series about the Ames case that begins on Thursday, has British actors in almost all the lead roles, including Ames (Paul Rhys), but the creators are stuck with an American spy who over nearly nine years in the 1980s and ’90s got people killed and did terrible damage to the C.I.A., but wasn’t actually very mysterious at all.Mr. Ames, who is now in prison serving a life sentence, had a problem with drinking and money; he and his younger second wife had expensive tastes. Even Robert P. Hanssen, the F.B.I. agent who sold information to the Soviets for two decades, had a richer back story: He was, among other things, a member of the secretive, conservative Roman Catholic society Opus Dei. (Chris Cooper played him in “Breach,” a 2007 movie.)The real puzzle is not why Mr. Ames became a traitor, but how on earth he evaded detection for so long. His C.I.A. superiors missed all kinds of clues that he clumsily left in his wake, including flashy cars and clothes he couldn’t possibly afford on his government salary.The long manhunt that finally led to Mr. Ames’s arrest in 1994 is a remarkable and important lesson about human error and missed opportunities, but it’s not an easy story to turn into a thriller, especially when fictional dramas like “Homeland” and “The Americans” are so much more complex and inviting.“The Assets” is uneven, with some excellent scenes and quite a few bad ones. It recreates the look and feel of the 1980s much more accurately than “The Americans,” which is also set in Reagan-era Washington. The women’s jutting shoulder pads in “The Assets” are particularly of the time. But the show is oddly paced, and in some places almost comically lurid and hammy: At times it seems as if it were made in the 1980s.Mostly, “The Assets” doesn’t make enough of the raw material. The first two episodes don’t flesh out the agency’s blind spots, blunders and personality conflicts, but instead present a compressed, sanitized account of the C.I.A.’s struggle to identify the mole. The lead character is the C.I.A. officer Sandy Grimes (played by the British actress Jodie Whittaker of “Broadchurch”), and her story is loosely based on “Circle of Treason,” a book that she wrote with a colleague who led the mole hunt, Jeanne Vertefeuille. Ms. Vertefeuille, who died in 2013, is played by the British actress Harriet Walter.Viewers know from the outset who the mole is. The story opens with Ames waiting in a restaurant for a K.G.B. contact and nervously gulping down martinis. Even when he is not drinking, Ames is odd enough that his co-workers mock him behind his back. Mr. Rhys plays the spy as sweaty, awkward and very weird. He speaks in a menacing Clint Eastwood whisper that would make anyone suspicious.And the C.I.A., of all institutions, should have paid more attention. According to “Circle of Treason,” when a group of F.B.I. agentsand C.I.A. officers took a straw poll to see who in their midst could most likely be a traitor, Mr. Ames came in first.Sandy is not a bipolar savant like Carrie Mathison on “Homeland.” She is a smart, dedicated C.I.A. officer with two children and an understanding husband, Gary (the British actor Julian Ovenden, who appears in the coming season of “Downton Abbey”). And as a heroine, she may be too virtuous and one-dimensional to hold attention.The Russian side of the story, oddly enough, is better told and more intriguing, mostly thanks to yet another British actor, Peter Guinness, who is excellent and quite touching in the role of Dmitri Polyakov, a general who gave away government secrets for almost no financial reward for nearly two decades and was the highest-ranking Soviet officer to spy for the United States during the Cold War. After Mr. Ames told Moscow about his double-dealing, General Polyakov was executed.Spies steal secrets. The British were once the best at that craft. Now they mainly steal acting roles.It seems too simple, too easy somehow, but there’s no denying the evidence before our eyes: “Community” is a worthwhile show again now that Dan Harmon, its creator, is back in his office doing whatever it is he does so obsessively.Mr. Harmon, a notorious perfectionist and grump, was let go in 2012 before this NBC comedy’s fourth season, and the subsequent batch of episodes — overseen by David Guarascio and Moses Port — were a predictable letdown. Mr. Guarascio and Mr. Port were blandly proficient at mimicking Mr. Harmon’s frenzied plotting, but gone was his inventiveness, the protean quality of imagination that made the stories more than just manic exercises in pop-culture fetishism.So Mr. Harmon was rehired as executive producer for Season 5, which begins with two episodes on Thursday night, and the show’s recovery is almost instantaneous. The season premiere, titled “Repilot,” is a stage setter made obligatory by the previous season’s feel-good ending, in which the central character, Jeff Winger (Joel McHale), graduated from Greendale Community College. In a fun-house-mirror reflection of the show’s original pilot, Jeff returns to Greendale, once again disgraced and on the make, and finds himself allied with his old group of lovable eccentrics.The engineering of the plot is pretty obvious, and the sentimentality that’s part of the Harmon package goes overboard toward the end of the episode, when the former study-group members decide to rally around Jeff one more time. True fans, however, will be rewarded by the callbacks to the original pilot (“It’s the coolest”; Jeff’s constantly leaving to take calls; his referring to Greendale as a toilet; and on and on).Everything is back on track, though, in Thursday night’s second episode, a sterling example of Mr. Harmon’s ability to deploy fanboy obsessiveness in the service of funny and affectionate storytelling. The story operates on several simultaneous levels of parody and tribute: While the movie fanatic Abed (Danny Pudi) takes a seminar titled Nicolas Cage: Good or Bad — and haven’t we all asked ourselves that question? — the character actor Jonathan Banks guest stars as a tough-guy teacher, playing him exactly as he did the enforcer Mike Ehrmantraut in “Breaking Bad.” “She needs to be taken out,” he growls to Jeff about a student. “Out of the class, I mean.”Mr. Banks serves another purpose: For one episode, at least, his character fills the old-guy slot left vacant by the departure of Chevy Chase, whose Pierce Hawthorne makes a brief appearance as a hologram in the season premiere. Hawthorne’s absence isn’t that damaging to the show’s texture, but it will be more difficult to make up for the lack of Troy Barnes, the former jock played by Donald Glover, who is reportedly leaving after the season’s fifth episode.The oddball friendship of Troy and Abed has been one of the show’s pillars — along with the continually splendid performance of Jim Rash as the hilariously fey Dean Pelton — and it’s hard to imagine “Community” without it. In a third, undated episode sent to critics, which appeared to be Mr. Glover’s farewell appearance, Mr. Harmon works his special blend of not-quite-maudlin uplift and corrosive dark humor to good effect (helped by another quirky guest appearance, this time from Walton Goggins of “The Shield” and “Justified”). Abed, hooked up to a polygraph — don’t ask — lies for all of us when he says he won’t miss Troy.I find New Year’s resolutions tricky and have avoided them in the past. I have difficulty dreaming up resolutions in the first place, and then I have problems sticking to them.This is one of those situations where carrying a smartphone everywhere is useful, because many apps can help you achieve your personal goals by setting and monitoring your habits.Habit Streak Pro on Android is a great app for helping you adjust your habits by encouraging you to report on what you’ve achieved each day. It rewards you by counting your so-called streaks, or runs of days where you successfully stuck to your goal. After a little use, keeping the streak going becomes motivational by itself. The app’s interface is clear and good-looking, which helps. You don’t want to interact with a badly designed app every day, do you?To add a habit you click the large “+” icon, and enter two things: The name of the habit you want to cultivate, like “morning jog” and a positive-sounding question, like “Did you take a nice jog today?” If you need help, the app can even suggest ideas for you. Tapping on the “...” icon brings up an exhaustive list of habits and questions to choose from. Then you set an alarm in the app that will generate a pop-up reminder to enter your progress for the previous day. The app suggests setting the alert to go off in the early morning.When the notification arrives, you enter the app, click on the check-mark icon and select all the goals you managed to achieve the previous day. The home screen updates show a counter for the streak of successful days and a progress bar that fills up over time. You can share your progress with friends via email or social networks. It’s simple and can help you keep track of several goals at once. But Habit Streak does require you to make an additional habit of checking into the app itself. And it costs $3 for the full version.Lift — Daily motivation, a similar habit-tracking app on iOS, has just been given an overhaul that makes it look more modern and appealing. Lift’s premise is that starting a new habit (or quitting an old one) is easier as part of a group.Like Habit Streak Pro, Lift lets you track your progress, and it also suggests goals for you, selected from a list with categories like fitness and learning. Tapping on a category takes you to a list of goals, like “ace your exam” within the learning category. These goals are then timed over a number of days, and as the days pass the app offers advice to keep you on track. When you click on the app to say you’ve achieved a daily goal, you can enter a short description of how you did or how you felt, and this is shared with the people trying to achieve the same goal.The app is a bit like a social network, and is free. But while the social angle is definitely going to appeal to some people, you may prefer a more private way to track your progress. In that case, the free iOS app Everest is worth a try. Everest is similar to Lift, but it lets you choose if you want to share publicly or get encouragement for reaching goals.Everest also asks you to set way points on the journey to achieving your goals. Setting all that up can take quite a while, but the process may help you visualize how you will reach your goal.On Android, The Habit Factor is a bit more like Lift and Everest than Habit Streak Pro because it lets you set a number of goals or habits and gives you space to define why you’re aiming at them. For example, you may set a recurring habit to “blog more” and tell the app this is because you want to make a success of your writing by putting in more effort. The app separates “goals” and “habits” because it’s trying to point out that keeping fit, for example, is a habit you should keep forever whereas quitting smoking is something you can do just once (hopefully).The interface of The Habit Factor lets you add details like photos, and it’s easy to use, with charts that summarize your progress at a glance. But it looks cluttered, which may grate on you. It’s $5 on Android, while the iOS version is $4.Quick CallListen is a cute iOS music-playing app that’s meant to be gesture-controlled and minimalist, with the aim of just letting you listen to music without the distraction of interfaces or controls. It’s just been overhauled to fit iOS 7’s look and has new features like the ability to play music over the wireless AirPlay system. It’s free.Cleaning UpDocument EditsQ. How do I hide the text-editing changes in a Microsoft Word 2013 file so they are not shown to other people?A. Microsoft Word’s Track Changes feature typically highlights the insertions and deletions made to a document by displaying the alterations as underlined and struck-through colored text. While the feature is useful for personal and group work on documents, you may not want to reveal the editing process to everyone who opens the file.Choosing the “Display for Review” or “No Markup” settings from the menu on Word’s Review tab temporarily hides the tracked changes and shows a clean version of the edited text. However, the insertions and deletions will reappear the next time the file is opened.To permanently remove all the tracked changes before sending the document on its way, go through the file and accept or reject each change made. (If the document is still a work in progress, you may want to make a duplicate before stripping out the changes.)You can accept all the changes at once by clicking the Review tab in the Ribbon of controls at the top of the document. On the Review tab, click the arrow next to the Accept icon and choose “Accept All Changes.” Likewise, you can reject all the changes by clicking the arrow next to the Reject icon in the Review tab and selecting the appropriate menu option.The Accept and Reject menus have options to approve each change individually as well. In the nearby Comments area of the Review tab, you can delete any or all embedded comments in the file by clicking the Delete (or Delete All Comments) option.ShrinkingMac’s OS X DockQ. The bar of program icons at the bottom of my Mac screen takes up a lot of space. Can I make it smaller?A. That taskbarlike strip of shortcut icons (called the Dock in OS X) can be customized. In the Dock itself, click on the System Preferences icon. In the System Preferences box, click the Dock icon.In the Dock preferences box, next to “Size,” use the slider to adjust the amount of room the Dock takes up on your Mac’s screen. You can also move the Dock’s position on the screen and adjust its other behaviors.TIP OF THE WEEK The cold winter months can be a great time for catching up on all those summer and fall movies missed during the warmer months. Along with DVD and Blu-ray discs, streaming services and online downloads now add to the possible options for watching at home.If you want to check one site for all the ways you can view a movie, visit OnDVDReleases at ondvdreleases.com and type in a title. The film’s page lists its release date in the different disc formats, as well as the online services that also offer that picture for digital rental or purchase, including Amazon Instant Video, Google Play, iTunes, Netflix and Redbox. A trailer and plot synopsis is also available for many listed films. Other cinephile sites like Moviefone.com and Flixster.com (which works with the major social networks and has mobile apps for most platforms) also offer DVD release dates, collected reviews and preview trailers for those looking for a suitable film to watch at home on a snowy evening. J. D. BIERSDORFERWhat may have been the most auspicious deal of late was not the biggest or the most groundbreaking of mergers. It was just one that took a little gumption.In September, Applied Materials, a California maker of semiconductor manufacturing equipment, agreed to acquire its rival, Tokyo Electron, in a deal valued at more than $9 billion.As an all-stock, cross-border deal, it was the kind of tricky merger that telegraphed executives’ confidence and an appetite to make even slightly risky deals.“It was when the light bulb went on,” a senior deal maker said.Are the animal spirits finally returning to the corporate world?In the United States, they appear to be. While global deal-making was basically flat for a fourth consecutive year, annual volume in the United States was up 11 percent in 2013 compared with the previous year, according to Thomson Reuters.Companies from New York to San Francisco announced more than $1 trillion worth of deals during the year, the most since the financial crisis. That led the United States to account for 43 percent of all deals worldwide, the biggest proportion since 2001.What’s more, activity picked up over the final two quarters, with volumes rising sharply from the first six months of the year.“There’s a feeling of a more stable backdrop that executives think will be with us for the foreseeable quarters,” said Blair W. Effron, co-founder of Centerview Partners, an independent investment bank. “I didn’t have a sense of that at the end of 2012 or 2011.”And with markets buoyant thanks to relative stability in Washington and around the globe, as well as moderate growth from corporations, the bankers and lawyers that advise companies on mergers and acquisitions are more optimistic than they have been in years.“From a macroeconomic perspective, we have a stronger economy, we have Congress behaving more responsibly, and we have all appearances of stability at the Fed,” said Scott A. Barshay, head of the corporate department at Cravath, Swaine & Moore, one of the top law firms on Wall Street. “C.E.O.’s can look forward and say, ‘I don’t see any near-term economic bumps.’ ”This stability is leading executives and directors to return to the business of plotting transformative deals that might take months or even years to execute, and even longer to pay dividends.“Boards are thinking about their goals not just tactically in a one-year 2014 increment, but more strategically for the longer term,” Mr. Effron said. “Companies are looking further down the field.”Centerview worked on three of the biggest deals of the year, advising H. J. Heinz on its $23 billion sale to 3G Capital and Berkshire Hathaway, General Electric on its sale of the remainder of NBCUniversal to Comcast for $16.7 billion, and Silver Lake Partners on its role in the buyout of Dell for $24.9 billion.Other boutique investment banks like Centerview continued to secure advisory roles on the biggest deals of the year. LionTree Advisors, a small firm focusing on media deals, advised Liberty Global on its $16 billion deal for Virgin Media, while Moelis & Company advised Omnicom on its $35.1 billion merger with Publicis, which was advised by Rothschild.Even the largest deal of the year — Verizon Communication’s $130 billion purchase from Vodafone of the stake in Verizon Wireless it did not already own — had upstarts among the big banks like Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase. Both Guggenheim Securities and Paul J. Taubman, the former Morgan Stanley banker who helped strike the original deal, advised Verizon.Yet the big banks continued to advise on most deals, and collect the most fees. Goldman, followed by JPMorgan, led advisers in deals by volume both in the United States and worldwide last year. The two banks also collected the most fees for their work, earning an estimated $1.5 billion and $1.3 billion for their advisory roles, according to Dealogic.The Verizon deal with Vodafone, one of the largest transactions ever, had been expected for years. But with interest rates low because of the Federal Reserve’s sustained stimulus program, Verizon was finally compelled to act before rates began creeping up. (That advantage was underscored when Verizon sold a record $49 billion of investment-grade corporate debt at once to help pay for the acquisition.)“This era of low interest rates has encouraged companies to consolidate and clean up some structural inefficiencies,” said Michael Carr, head of Goldman Sachs’s mergers and acquisitions group in Americas.Still, while many factors encouraged merger activity, one phenomenon that once drove deals — activist investors — became something of a depressant. Activists were once feared for their ability to shake up company, spurring it to make deals with competitors or test the market for a sale.To some degree that was still the case. Activists occasionally prodded smaller companies to sell themselves, and in other cases encouraged big conglomerates to dispose of noncore units. Nelson Peltz, for example, pushed for a big spinoff at DuPont.“Activism has been a positive influence on some companies, making them more introspective,” said Chris Ventresca, co-head of global mergers and acquisitions at JPMorgan. “Companies are realizing that if they don’t look at what is core and noncore, someone will do it for them.”But by and large, activists focused more on capital allocation than on deals. Moreover, many advisers said that executives now feared that spending money on a deal rather than returning it to shareholders would invite activist scrutiny.“Companies that have activists in their stock generally do not do acquisitions,” Mr. Barshay of Cravath said. “The activists are completely focused on returning capital to shareholders.”Regardless, United States companies forged ahead with deals, and were often rewarded when they did. Another factor that emboldened companies to make more deals is that for the most part, the markets rewarded deals that immediately added to earnings. According to Goldman Sachs, in about two-thirds of the deals in 2013, the buyer’s stock price increased on average more than 5 percent on a sustained basis.“It’s giving people confidence that despite the scrutiny of activist investors, companies can really add value through M.&A.,” Mr. Carr of Goldman said.Looking ahead to 2014, deal makers say companies could be prompted to make deals for a number of reasons.One is that with stock markets riding high, companies will probably feel pressure to demonstrate sustained growth to validate their share prices.“The pressure is building for companies to justify their trading multiples,” Mr. Ventresca of JPMorgan said. “It will be hard to deliver that organically, so you have to look for inorganic growth.”Certain sectors could also set off rounds of megadeals.Last year, many companies in the telecommunications industry made deals. Besides the Verizon and Vodafone megadeal, SoftBank took control of Sprint in a $21.6 billion deal, and T-Mobile and MetroPCS announced a multibillion-dollar reverse merger.While some telecommunications activity could continue, with Sprint reportedly looking at a bid for T-Mobile, 2014 could have a spate of cable television deals. Charter Communications, backed by John C. Malone’s Liberty Media, is preparing to make an offer for Time Warner Cable. But Comcast, the nation’s largest cable operator, is considering a spoiler bid.If either deal happens, it could kick off a wave of consolidation of both cable operators and cable networks, which could look to gain negotiating power by increasing their scale.“All year we’ve had strong equity markets, cheap debt and ho-hum M.&A.,” Mr. Barshay said. “That usually doesn’t happen and it is finally starting to change. We’re seeing it in a spate of recent deals and we’re seeing it in the pipeline.”TAKE a look at your mobile device. Do you see oily fingerprints and lint on the touch screen? Dust and crumbs forming particulate frost in the corners? Is that a hair stuck at the screen’s edge?Because our electronics are constantly within our grubby grasp, they can get pretty gross. They are taken into public restrooms, handed to runny-nosed toddlers, passed around to share photos and pressed against sweaty skin in gyms. Repeated studies show what accumulates is germy nastiness worse than what is on the bottom of your shoe.“That devices can be a source of disease transmission is not a subject of debate anymore,” said Dr. Dubert Guerrero, an infectious disease specialist at Sanford Health in Fargo, N.D., and co-author of a study about the persistence of bacteria on iPads published in November in The American Journal of Infection Control.So it is a good idea to keep your devices clean, not only to keep from getting sick but also to maintain resale value when it’s time to upgrade. Companies like Best Buy, Target, Gazelle, Amazon, Verizon and AT&T all offer trade-in or cash-back programs, said Derek Meister, a technician for the Geek Squad, Best Buy’s repair and online support service.“People don’t want any marks or grime on their devices,” Mr. Meister said, because like trading in a used car at a dealership, “the better the condition, the more like new it is, the more money you get on your trade-in.”A word of warning: Cleaning your device can be tricky, since you don’t want to damage it and manufacturers don’t give you much guidance. It can be done, however, if you’re careful and conscientious.Dr. Guerrero and his colleagues found that regularly wiping down your device with a moist microfiber cloth was sufficient to eliminate many kinds of common bacteria. More enduring and dangerous bacteria like clostridium difficile (which can cause diarrhea or even inflammation of the colon) and flu viruses may require a sterilizing agent like bleach or alcohol, he said.This is a problem, since Apple on its website officially warns against using “window cleaners, household cleaners, aerosol sprays, solvents, alcohol, ammonia or abrasives” to clean its products and advises instead to “simply wipe the screen with a soft, lint-free cloth to remove oil left by your hands.” Other manufacturers offer similar advice or none at all.And yet, in the Apple Store, you’ll find the 32-percent isopropyl alcohol Clens wipes by Bausch & Lomb. Apple declined to explain the contradiction. Nevertheless, the wipes work great at cleaning grime, muck and marks off your device and they also disinfect. A Clens kit that includes three Clens wipes, a 3-ounce bottle of Clens cleaning spray and a cleaning cloth costs about $20.But it’s far cheaper to make your own alcohol and water solution. To clean his own mobile devices, Mr. Meister at the Geek Squad said he used a 1:1 ratio of 70 percent isopropyl alcohol and distilled water, which together cost less than $4 at most grocery and drugstores. “You want distilled water and purer alcohol so there are fewer chemicals or minerals left behind when the solution evaporates,” he said.Fill a spray bottle with the diluted alcohol, lightly moisten a lint-free, preferably microfiber, cloth (no paper towels) and gently wipe down the screen and case. Never spray directly onto the device. To clean corners and around ports, use lint-free foam rather than cotton Q-tips.If you’re supergermophobic, you might consider purchasing an ultraviolet sanitizer. Violife makes a $50 cellphone sanitizer about the size of a coffee can. Just pop your phone into the dock and replace the lid for ultraviolet light to zap pathogens. Verilux sells a $40 sanitizing wand, which the company claims kills up to 99 percent of germs when waved over your electronics. This won’t improve the look of your device or maximize value at trade-in but it might spare you the sniffles or worse during cold and flu season.Using a can of compressed air to blow around ports and between keys, on the other hand, will help maintain the look, performance and value of your device. This gets rid of dust and particles that can infiltrate and damage electronics. Another option is to buy a specialized air compressor like the DataVac Electric Duster, which lists for $100 and comes with all sorts of little attachments for cleaning out your devices’ crevices and seams.“An air compressor gets things really clean and it’s environmentally good because you don’t have a little can to throw away after blowing air,” said Miroslav Djuric, chief information architect at ifixit.com, an online do-it-yourself community. He uses an all-purpose compressor he bought at Home Depot and fitted with an inflating needle (the kind used to inflate a basketball or a bike tire) to precisely direct the air flow.To repel germs, grease and pet hair from your laptop, there are antimicrobial and protective keyboard, trackpad and palm rest covers that are nearly invisible and washable. Moshi, NewerTech, iSkin and Protect Computer Products all make these covers for less than $30.“We get so many computers damaged from kids spilling things on them,” said David Bensinger, owner of The Little Laptop Shop in Manhattan. “At least people say it was their kids when they drop the computers off.”Washable screen protectors for laptops, tablets and smartphones are available from manufacturers such as Boxwave, BodyGuardz, iSmooth and Moshi at a cost of $5 to $40, depending on the size. They are easy to apply and reapply without unsightly bubbles or impaired visibility or functionality of touch screens.Similarly, Ultra-Sleeves and Chef Sleeves are clear, hygienic and protective iPad and tablet covers. They enclose the entire device and are disposable. They are intended for people working in health care, construction, industrial or restaurant settings. These covers are also ideal for those who might have to share their devices with multiple people during the course of the day, like teachers or salespeople. A pack of 10 costs about $12.It’s up to you how obsessively you want to clean your mobile devices, but health and electronics experts advise wiping down your mobile device with a moist microfiber cloth at least daily for basic sanitation and upkeep.Like your toothbrush, “your mobile device is something you want to clean regularly,” said Dr. Guerrero, the infectious disease specialist. And it is probably not something you want to pass around the table.“Science is the new rock ’n’ roll.” Or so the four scientists at the center of the beguiling new Image Comics series “Nowhere Men” would have you believe. These men have banded together to form World Corp., a research and development company that has a profound influence on the planet through advances in things like cyberoptics and genetics. But ideological shifts and personality clashes cause their alliance to fracture.The writer, Eric Stephenson, who is also the publisher of Image Comics and a music aficionado, has said that the Beatles were one of the initial inspirations for the scientists of World Corp. You can see that inspiration in the title, of course, and in flashbacks in which one of the scientists, Emerson Strange, looks like John Lennon. More important, the scientists, like the Beatles, are celebrities with an outsize influence on culture, which allows Mr. Stephenson and the illustrator, Nate Bellegarde, to explore the love-hate relationship we have with our idols in the context of a richly complex, created world.The first chapter of “Fates Worse Than Death,” which collects the first six issues of the continuing “Nowhere Men” series, is a good indicator of what lies ahead and what will be repeated motifs: flashbacks of the men in more idealistic days; excerpts from scientific journals and magazines that offer insights into their personalities; and present-day intrigues, including several humans dealing with the after-effects of being experimented on. These people gain special abilities, but are unlikely to become typical superheroes. They don’t have model good looks (one is reminiscent of a crimson Komodo dragon), and their powers seems incompatible with fighting crime (another has become an eerie, erosive inkblot).When a writer-artist team is truly clicking, something magical can happen, and it does here. Mr. Stephenson and Mr. Bellegarde juggle multiple characters and locations — in geography and in time — yet personalities and appearances remain distinct. (Jordie Bellaire is the colorist, and Steven Finch, who goes by the name Fonografiks, is the designer.) And Mr. Bellegarde has some show-stopping images, including double-page spreads of a weird gorilla creature that appear near the beginning and the end of this volume. The creative team has also supplied realistic ephemera — personal letters, magazine covers and interviews, World Corp. logos and advertisements — that enrich the experience and fill-in the back story. “Nowhere Men” has a lot to absorb, and that’s most welcome at a time when some comic books take only minutes to read.The real Fab Four are supporting characters in “The Fifth Beatle: The Brian Epstein Story,” which focuses on six tumultuous years, beginning in 1961, when Epstein, the band’s manager, first saw the group perform at the Cavern Club in Liverpool, England, and ending in 1967 with his death, caused by a lethal combination of drugs and alcohol.Written by Vivek J. Tiwary and lavishly illustrated by Andrew C. Robinson with Kyle Baker, “The Fifth Beatle” is maddeningly uneven. It abounds with emotional moments, but they would be more resonant if balanced with additional facts about Epstein’s life. In some ways, this book feels like a teaser for the movie version of “The Fifth Beatle,” which Mr. Tiwary is producing.The graphic novel presents Epstein as the outsider he was: Jewish and gay, at a time in England when the first wasn’t very popular and engaging in homosexual activity was a criminal act. Mr. Tiwary also paints Brian as too trusting — the story opens with a potential dalliance with a sailor that becomes violent rather than amorous — a personality trait that continually harms him.Working at his family’s music store, Epstein learns of a popular local band and ventures out to hear it play. Three panels, over three pages, focus on his face as he watches the Beatles perform for the first time. This kind of repetition is used throughout the novel, but not always this successfully.So much can be garnered from Epstein’s expression as he watches the band: wonderment, attraction, a desire to belong. The crowd at the club fades while his face becomes more real, just shy of photorealist. These panels are some of Mr. Robinson’s strongest in a book filled with vibrant images.The story exaggerates certain events and people, like the demonic portrayal of Col. Tom Parker, Elvis Presley’s manager, who is depicted with red eyes, sharp teeth and pointy ears. But some moments of high absurdity may be true: When Epstein negotiates with Ed Sullivan about the Beatles fateful appearance on his show, Sullivan communicates, in part, through a ventriloquist dummy. (In his afterword, Mr. Tiwary is coy about whether this actually happened.)What feels more truthful is Epstein’s relationship with a hustler he meets at a gay bar in New York. Mr. Robinson makes great use of color in these scenes: The initial meeting has a crimson hue, which adds to the taste of the forbidden. (“I didn’t know places like this exist!” Epstein says.) Their first sexual encounter, accented with cigarettes, pills and booze, has a yellow tinge, and a walk in the park is radiantly bright, with a blue bird and green trees. In this scene, Epstein is still naïvely buoyant about their relationship, though there are clear signs that it is one sided. By the time the hustler gets around to extortion, his dialogue is presented in black balloons with white type, giving his treatment of Epstein an even more sinister edge.In the final scenes, Epstein is bedridden and feverish. He receives several visitors, real and imagined, including Paul McCartney, who reminds him of the love that Epstein and the band brought into the world; and Moxie, his loyal assistant who nursed a not-so-secret crush on him.The two-page coda, on the day of Epstein’s death, Aug. 27, 1967, finds the Beatles with their guru Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, and they eulogize their manager in captions. (“Brian Epstein accomplished more by the age of 32 than most people do in an entire lifetime.”) But the more emotional beat comes just before, when Epstein and Moxie discuss plans for a tomorrow that will never come.