NEW YEAR’S RESOLUTIONS? I don’t need no stinkin’ resolutions, I thought when my editor suggested I write a piece about my fashion-focused goals for 2016. Thanks, but I haven’t spent nearly two decades working in fashion without sorting out my style. (Insert Liz Lemon eye roll GIF here.)I soon reconsidered that smug reaction. Pride goeth before the fall. Resolution One: Stop being a know-it-all. I’ve seen it happen: A fashion editor becomes so rigid in her personal edicts that she free-falls straight into a black, 100% cashmere rut. Resolution Two: I will let—nay, encourage—myself to make a mistake. Fashion should be fun, even a little messy. This year I will indulge in a wild-card purchase, maybe one of Sacai’s bandana-print dresses for Spring 2016, which I loved at first sight even if my internal naysayer told me the dresses might look dated sooner than my many, many gray sweaters.In the spirit of rule-breaking-as-resolution, I decided to review other self-imposed restrictions. Resolution Three: Stop shunning the low-price fast fashion at Zara and H&M. As part of my maternity wardrobe (I’m at 32 weeks and counting), I bought a couple of knit dresses from Zara and was impressed with the quality. The dresses didn’t strike me as disposable and therefore wasteful—one of my key beefs with fast fashion. I hope to wear them post-natally, unless my bump has unalterably distorted their shape. Plus, both companies have made efforts to be more ethical and sustainable with their supply chains. On my next H&M visit, I may take a bag of old clothes for the company’s Garment Collecting Initiative, which recycles used pieces.Another old rule—Don’t buy any high-end designer item unless I truly love it—also called for re-examining. The price of women’s designer fashion has become astronomical. Though borderline justified in the case of, say, a heavily embroidered dress, these prices often feel arbitrary. Take the women’s navy blazer in Saint Laurent’s permanent collection: At $3,190, it costs over $700 more than the nearly identical men’s version. I should be seeking creative workarounds. Resolution Four: My next piece of tailoring will be made bespoke. I’m certain I can get a beautiful navy blazer made custom for less than $3,000.Speaking of value, it’s interesting how many of us who work in the fashion industry are desensitized to hefty price tags, with one curious proviso. Many of my colleagues find a $3,000 blazer acceptable, yet might balk at buying similarly priced fine jewelry, which they dismiss as an indulgence. I question this: A lovely bit of bijoux not only lasts, well, forever, its impact on your ensemble far outweighs its size. Ergo, Resolution Five: Instead of that blazer splurge, maybe I will buy a small piece of fine jewelry. Then again, who am I kidding? What’s most likely topping my budget for 2016 is onesies, Exersaucers and the best nanny I can find.ROCHESTER, N.Y.—An ex-convict arrested in a plot to carry out an attack at a bar on New Year’s Eve is a panhandler who had been asked to leave the tavern in the past, its owner said, while the man’s family said he had a long history of mental problems.Federal authorities have said Emanuel Lutchman, 25, sought to prove he was worthy of joining the Islamic State group by leading an attack in Rochester with a machete and knives provided by an FBI informant.After authorities announced his arrest Thursday, his father and mother described a man who had psychiatric troubles since childhood, had recently stabbed himself in a suicide attempt and, they said, wouldn’t have conducted the attack on his own.“The boy is impressionable,” his father, Omar Lutchman, told NBC News. “First he was a Blood, then he was a Crip, then he became a Muslim. He’s easily manipulated.”Omar Lutchman and the suspect’s grandmother, Beverley Carridice-Henry, told the network Emanuel Lutchman is married and has a 2-year-old son but had been having marital and money problems. He was frustrated over being unable to find work and care for his family, they said.Authorities said in court papers that Emanuel Lutchman said he received direction from an overseas Islamic State group member and planned to carry out the attack Thursday.“I will take a life, I don’t have a problem with that,” the court papers quoted Mr. Lutchman as saying.Mr. Lutchman’s lawyer, Steven Slawinski, declined to comment on the allegations. Mr. Lutchman has been charged with attempting to provide material support to terrorists.While authorities didn’t identify the target, a co-owner said it was Merchants Grill, a neighborhood sports pub. The U.S. attorney’s office for western New York didn’t return a phone call Friday seeking confirmation of that.Emanuel Lutchman lived nearby and had repeatedly come into the bar asking for money, co-owner John Page told local media. He told WHEC-TV that Mr. Lutchman had been asked to leave several times.Mr. Lutchman was described in court papers as having a long criminal history, including a 2006 robbery conviction that led to a five-year prison sentence.ATLANTA—Not since at least the civil-rights movement have Americans challenged the South’s Confederate symbols as fervently as they did in 2015.The June massacre of nine black churchgoers in Charleston, S.C., by a believed white supremacist “opened the floodgates,” said John W. Adams, spokesman for the Florida Sons of Confederate Veterans.Since then, officials in South Carolina, Texas, Tennessee, Florida and elsewhere removed or took steps to dismantle flags and other symbols from the region’s secessionist past.In June, South Carolina’s Republican Gov. Nikki Haley, flanked by other political leaders in her state, called for removal of a Confederate battle flag flying in front of the state Capitol. “A hundred and fifty years after the end of the Civil War the time has come,” she said to loud applause. The flag came down July 10.Alabama’s Republican Gov. Robert Bentley also ordered Confederate flags taken down at that state’s Capitol, and the University of Texas at Austin removed a statue of Confederate President Jefferson Davis from the campus’s South Mall.Because of demographic shifts, many Southerners have altered attitudes toward once-sacrosanct tributes to the Confederacy. The 11 states that made up the former Confederacy grew to a total population of over 102 million in 2014, from 84.2 million in 2000, according to U.S. Census Bureau data, a 21% increase, compared with a 13% overall U.S. growth rate. Southern states’ ethnic and racial composition has evolved significantly, with black, Hispanic and Asian minorities growing.Sharon Brown, a 43-year-old African-American activist who has launched an effort to remove the Confederate battle emblem—the “Southern Cross”—from the Mississippi flag, said that her work brought hundreds of supporters to march through Jackson calling for the change. Several cities and colleges in the state have already removed the flag.Her work also brought nasty phone calls to her home, with strangers yelling “the normal ignorant remarks,” she said. “Change is never easy.”Opposition to tossing all things Confederate into history’s dust bin now is growing. Heritage supporters are lobbying legislators, and their lawyers are preparing lawsuits, in efforts to restore or maintain Confederate monuments.“We’re seeing a resurgence, a counterbalance” from people who wish to honor the region’s Confederate heritage, said Mr. Adams, whose heritage group opposes the removals.Confederate heritage groups say that membership and donations are up; and Confederate flags unfurled on trucks or waving in front of homes remain a common sight across much of the rural South.Dewey Barber, owner of Confederate flag retailer Dixie Outfitters, in Odum, Ga., said sales have “overwhelmed” his company last summer and fall. Many flags are out of stock as suppliers rush to fill orders, he said. “It’s off the charts.”The stage is set for political skirmishes in 2016.In New Orleans, the city council approved Mayor Mitch Landrieu’s plan to remove Confederate monuments, citing public nuisance laws. But monument supporters gathered thousands of signatures of support and filed a lawsuit in federal court to halt the plan.In Georgia, a battle erupted at Stone Mountain, a granite outcropping east of Atlanta that bears 90-foot-tall likenesses of Confederate leaders chiseled in its side. The association that runs the state park proposed in October to place a “freedom bell” monument in honor of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. atop the mountain, as a feel-good gesture.But a local NAACP leader called the idea “a ploy” and said setting such a monument amid a park honoring the Confederacy would be an insult to the Rev. King, unless all Confederate flags and place names were removed. State law explicitly requires rebel flags at the park. Leaders of the Georgia Sons of Confederate Veterans blasted the proposed additions as “disrespectful” changes to undermine the park’s purpose: to honor their ancestors who fought.Bill Stephens, chief executive of the park association, said the group put the Rev. King tribute idea “on the back burner,” adding: “We were surprised that both sides were so against it.”Even in South Carolina, where the flag in front of the Capitol came down so dramatically, Confederate heritage is stirring controversy.Some legislators voted for the flag’s removal only after they were assured it would be put on exhibit in a state-run museum. The state commission this December proposed the cost of such an exhibit to be about $3.6 million, down from $5.3 million initially proposed by architectural consultants. The General Assembly will take up the issue in January.RIYADH—Women in Saudi Arabia still aren’t allowed to drive. But inside a local potato-chip factory here, Khuloud Majrashi runs a forklift.Every morning, she uses the heavy-duty vehicle with jutting steel prongs to feed crates of potatoes into a peeling machine at the start of an assembly line. The line is unusual in that it is fully operated by women, who make up the daytime shifts while male employees run the line by night.The factory operates around the clock, but with a difference. “Women are at least 15-20% more productive than men,” said Hisham Hamdy, the male factory supervisor.The leaders of the Arab world’s largest economy want to build a robust industrial base to help diversify away from oil revenues, which cover around 90% of the state budget and have been declining as prices fall. Women are playing an unexpected role in that transition, challenging conventional labor relations in the staunchly conservative Saudi kingdom.In early December, Saudi women were allowed for the first time to run and vote in municipal elections, and they are being welcomed in some parts of the workforce. But women still face entrenched segregation and prejudice in the workplace. Female employees are required to use separate entrances and work separate shifts, making it harder for them to communicate with upper management.Many people in Saudi Arabia’s traditional and conservative society see women as unfit for manufacturing jobs, a view the government and companies are trying to change. They are recruiting more women for vital jobs and bringing them into the workplace by catering to their needs, offering child care, transport and all-women factories.Such steps reflect not only the government’s drive to get beyond oil, but also to reduce high unemployment. One-third of Saudi working-age women who seek work can’t find it. Just over a fifth of Saudi women participated in the workforce in 2014, according to the International Labor Organization.The state-run Saudi Industrial Property Authority is building 13 special zones designed to encourage business owners to hire more female employees. The zones, located near urban areas to make commutes short, offer facilities such as training centers to teach manufacturing skills and medical clinics to provide treatment for women and their children.Employing women is “significant in terms of contributing to meet the sector’s increasing growth and demand in industries like food and pharmaceuticals,” said Sami al-Hussaini, a spokesman for the authority.Some Saudi companies were earlier than others in introducing women to the workplace. State-owned oil giant Saudi Aramco hired its first Saudi woman in 1964 to work as a health educator. Today it employs more than 500 Saudi women, but most of them—even those with engineering degrees—are confined to office work, current and former employees said. The company didn’t respond to requests to comment.Female engineering graduates face an uphill climb in Saudi Arabia finding a job that reflects their education.Zahra al-Khalifa, who graduated with an engineering degree from the University of Tulsa in 2012, didn’t want a “boring” office job. But since most Saudi oil companies still balk at hiring a female engineer, she was unemployed for a year until General Electric Co. came along. The Fairfield, Conn., conglomerate, which operates a facility for servicing gas turbines in eastern Saudi Arabia, hired her as an engineer responsible for the repair and inspection of power nozzles on the turbines used to generate electricity.“They took the chance of hiring a female engineer with no experience at all because they want to develop female engineers,” Ms. al-Khalifa said.The toughest part of the 28-year-old’s job is actually outside the shop. “Most of our customers are Saudis,” Ms. al-Khalifa said. “They are not comfortable dealing with females yet.”She is one of several Saudi female engineers employed by GE who complained that their customers often ignore them, preferring to speak to their male subordinates.“They don’t like to talk and deal with women, probably because their companies don’t have any female employees,” said Kawthar al-Khalifa, another Saudi woman engineer working for GE.Dealing with men is less of an issue for these female engineers, many of them educated abroad, than it is for assembly-line workers from less affluent backgrounds.For that reason, most manufacturers who hire a large number of women are expected to provide segregated workplaces where female employees can have more privacy.Arabian Oud, a maker of perfumes, has recently converted its 45-year-old factory in the industrial zone outside Riyadh to an all-women facility with 55 employees. The company is now building another plant where managers expect hire around 1,000 female employees.As factory manager Iman al-Omar, a former chemistry teacher, walked between large tanks of alcohol and mixed fragrances ready for bottling, she remarked that most of her employees are below the age of 35. At first, many of them struggled with transportation due to the driving ban; others had to stay at home after having children. Most of these problems were overcome once the company started offering free bus and child day-care on site.“Absenteeism used to be a serious issue,” Ms. al-Omar said. “Now women realize the importance of work.”DUBAI, United Arab Emirates—Saudi Arabia carried out at least 157 executions in 2015, with beheadings reaching their highest level in the kingdom in two decades, according to several advocacy groups that monitor the death penalty world-wide.Coinciding with the rise in executions is the number of people put to death for nonlethal offenses that judges have wide discretion to rule on, particularly for drug-related crimes.Rights group Amnesty International said in November that at least 63 people had been executed since the start of the year for drug-related offenses. That figure made for at least 40% of the total number of executions in 2015, compared with less than 4% for drug-related executions in 2010.Amnesty said Saudi Arabia had exceeded its highest level of executions since 1995, when 192 executions were recorded.But while some crimes, such as premeditated murder, may carry fixed punishments under Saudi Arabia’s interpretation of the Islamic law, or Shariah, drug-related offenses are considered “ta’zir,” meaning neither the crime nor the punishment is defined in Islam.A 2005 royal decree issued in Saudi Arabia to combat narcotics further codified the right of judges to issue execution sentences “as a discretionary penalty” against any person found guilty of smuggling, receiving or manufacturing drugs.Discretionary judgments for “ta’zir” crimes have led to arbitrary rulings with contentious outcomes.In a lengthy report issued in August, Amnesty International noted the case of Lafi al-Shammari, a Saudi national with no previous criminal record who was executed in mid-2015 for drug trafficking. The person arrested with him and charged with the same offenses received a 10-year prison sentence, despite having prior arrests related to drug trafficking.Human Rights Watch found that of the first 100 prisoners executed in 2015, 56 had been based on judicial discretion and not for crimes for which Islamic law mandates a specific death-penalty punishment.HRW’s Middle East researcher Adam Coolge said Saudi Arabia executed 158 people in total in 2015, compared with 90 the year before.Catherine Higham, a caseworker for Reprieve, which works against the death penalty world-wide, said her organization documented 157 executions in the kingdom. Saudi Arabia doesn’t release annual tallies, though it does announce individual executions in state media throughout the year.Saudi law allows for execution in cases of murder, drug offenses and rape. Though seldom carried out, the death penalty also applies to adultery, apostasy and witchcraft.Even with the kingdom’s record level of executions in 2015, Amnesty International said China, where information about the death penalty is a “state secret,” is believed to execute more individuals that the rest of the world combined.Reprieve said that in Iran, more than 1,000 people were executed in 2015. Another organization called Iran Human Rights, which is based in Oslo, Norway, and closely follows executions, said at least 648 people had been executed in the first six months of 2015 in the Islamic Republic, with more than two-thirds for drug offenses.MEXICO CITY—While online shopping gains traction in Mexico thanks to wider Internet access and smartphone use, a dearth of credit cards and reluctance among large swaths of the population to pay for goods online are prompting Web retailers to look for creative solutions.Online shopping represents just about 2% of the country’s roughly $203 billion in annual retail sales, according to consulting firm Euromonitor International, even as the segment’s sales have increased more than fourfold in the past five years and are expected to double again by 2020.Payment via Internet remains a challenge for a country with just 22.6 million credit cards in a population of 119.5 million, and despite programs to expand financial inclusion, online retailers find it worthwhile to cater to customers who still prefer to use cash.Amazon.com Inc., which launched full-fledged Mexican operations in June, began to offer gift cards in December that can be bought for cash at thousands of Oxxo convenience stores operated by beverage and retail giant Femsa, as Fomento Economico Mexicano is better known.The Seattle-based online retailer also reached an agreement to accept Oxxo’s own prepaid cards. In two years, Oxxo, which has more than 13,000 stores across the country, has placed with consumers two million of the cards associated with accounts at Citigroup Inc. unit Banamex.“We’re acknowledging there’s a big opportunity among the unbanked,” said Amazon Mexico country manager Juan Carlos García, who noted that more than 80% of consumers in Mexico still prefer to buy with cash. “We had been preparing this. Unfortunately it wasn’t ready before the launch” in June, he said.With its strategy in Mexico, Amazon joins regional rivals. Linio, one of Latin America’s largest online stores with operations in eight countries, accepts PayPal, cash-on-delivery and cash payments at Oxxo stores, as well as credit and debit cards. Latin American eCommerce leader MercadoLibre has a PayPal-like payment system called MercadoPago, and in Mexico also allows for payment at Oxxo and other retail outlets.Linio Chief Executive Andreas Mjelde, who is based in Mexico City, sees cash-on-delivery as a way to reassure first-time clients, saying that after one or two such purchases they often switch to paying online. “It breaches the gap of the lack of trust that the average Latin American has to shopping online,” he said.More than half of Mexicans over the age of 6 use the Internet, but while 85% of users access social networks, only a quarter use the Internet to make purchases, according to a survey by the Mexican Internet Association.Retailers take hope from the rapid growth of smartphone use, which jumped 40% in 2015, according to the Competitive Intelligence Unit. The telecommunications research firm estimated that Mexicans would have close to 75 million smartphones and 20 million tablets by the end of 2015, with penetration likely to expand more this year.“Soon a majority of the population in all our markets will be able to shop online,” Mr. Mjelde said. “By 2020 there won’t be any limit to Latin America in terms of Internet penetration or payments.”With roughly 98% of Mexico’s retail sales conducted at physical stores, the main competition for online sellers is not each other but rather traditional retail, he said.Bricks-and-mortar retailers are also stepping up their e-commerce efforts.Department store chain El Puerto de Liverpool invested $36 million in three years to upgrade its online platform, offering free delivery and more than one million online products.Wal-Mart de Mexico, the country’s biggest retailer and one of the top three in online sales, is banking on e-commerce to provide one percentage point of the 7% annual sales growth it needs to meet its target of doubling its business over the next decade.Mary Valencia, vice president of e-commerce at Wal-Mart de Mexico, said consumers appreciate the greater number of products that can be offered online and the ease with which they can compare prices. Often, customers will see a product in a store, and then go online to check against others before making a purchase, she said. Wal-Mart also allows customers to pay for Internet purchases at its store checkouts.The increased competition in e-commerce comes as traditional retailers are riding a recovery thanks to employment and wage growth, as well as record-low inflation. Last year through November, same-store sales of Mexican retailers were ahead 6.5%, compared with a 0.9% gain in the same period of 2014, according to retail association Antad.As e-commerce competition heats up, logistics play an increasing role.While Amazon’s existing Mexican customers were able last year to switch seamlessly to its Mexico store, Mr. Garcia said, the retailer is taking advantage of its newly established local presence to offer enhanced services such as rapid delivery times.The bulk of online sales, according to retailers, is still in Mexico’s biggest cities such as Mexico City, Guadalajara and Monterrey. At the same time, several note that there is relatively strong online demand in midsize cities and more remote states, where there are fewer stores and less merchandise on offer.Electronic goods such as flat-screen televisions and videogames are particularly popular among online shoppers, although Amazon is also seeing demand for books, DVDs and CDs—and ”even vinyl records,” Mr. Garcia said, “which sounds pretty retro but they’re selling.”FLORHAM PARK, N.J.--Considering the Jets’ postseason track record in the past 47 years, they and their fans will either be delighted by this outlook or horrified by the potential jinx: The Jets’ path to the Super Bowl might never get easier than it appears right now.Their two scariest potential first-round playoff opponents, Cincinnati and Denver, have been starting backup quarterbacks in AJ McCarron and Brock Osweiler, respectively. Another possible foe, the Houston Texans, could be an 8-8 team when the NFL regular season wraps up this weekend.Of course, before the 10-5 Jets can start thinking about those blemished playoff opponents, they have to clinch an AFC postseason berth by beating Rex Ryan’s Buffalo Bills on Sunday. (They can also hope that 9-6 Pittsburgh loses to 3-12 Cleveland.) And even that should be simpler than usual—as long as the Jets deploy their All-Pro cornerback, Darrelle Revis, wisely.Six weeks ago, when the Bills traveled to East Rutherford to face the Jets at MetLife Stadium, Buffalo held all the advantages. Less than a season after New York fired him as its head coach, Ryan was keyed in to the Jets’ weaknesses, namely that they were playing without two injured defensive backs, cornerback Antonio Cromartie and safety Calvin Pryor. The Bills won, 22-17.Now it’s the Jets in the enviable position. The Bills are 7-8, out of the playoff hunt and playing for nothing but pride. They will also play without three injured offensive players: star running back LeSean McCoy, tight end and team receptions leader Charles Clay, and receiver Robert Woods. The Jets, meanwhile, should be at full strength.“Our injuries aren’t as much as compared to what they normally are this time of year for a lot of teams, so we’re pleased about that,” head coach Todd Bowles said.Even what would normally be a major advantage for the Bills—a January game in Orchard Park, N.Y.—will be neutralized by Jets quarterback Ryan Fitzpatrick, who was Buffalo’s starting quarterback from 2009 to 2012. Calling his plays on Sunday will be offensive coordinator Chan Gailey, who was the Bills’ head coach from 2010 to 2012. The weather could be a factor, though, as the forecast calls for a kickoff temperature of 32 degrees with a chance of snow.“It can be brutal conditions,” Fitzpatrick said. “You can check the weather report all week, but you never know what you’re going to get until five minutes before the game starts. So that’s not something we can really worry about until we get there and see what happens.”More important, the Jets have the benefit of learning from the mistakes they made in that Nov. 12 loss. If one thing became clear during that game—as well as a subsequent loss to Houston the following week—is that Revis shouldn’t cover Bills receiver Sammy Watkins by himself all game.At age 30, Revis remains one of the league’s best cornerbacks. This season, his ninth, opposing quarterbacks have a miserable 39.7 passer rating when throwing toward Revis. He has allowed only 31 completions for 463 yards and three touchdowns on 80 attempts, while intercepting five passes.Jets quarterback Ryan Fitzpatrick started 53 games for Buffalo from 2009 to 2012.But Revis has also shown this year that he has trouble keeping up with younger, faster receivers like the 22-year-old Watkins, whose 18.6 yards per reception ranks second in the NFL. On Buffalo’s first offensive play in the Nov. 12 game, Watkins beat Revis for what would have been an 82-yard touchdown had Tyrod Taylor’s pass been a little better. Revis eventually held Watkins to three catches for 14 yards in the game, but the last reception, a 4-yarder on third-and-2 with 2:43 left in the fourth quarter, sealed Buffalo’s win.A week later, Texans receiver DeAndre Hopkins repeatedly burned Revis, including for a 61-yard touchdown, in Houston’s 24-17 win.When Revis played for the Patriots during their Super Bowl-winning campaign last season, New England typically assigned him to cover the opponent’s second-best receiver while doubling two defenders on the team’s most dangerous receiver. That left opposing quarterbacks with two bad options: throw into double coverage to the favorite target, or throw to a receiver covered by Revis.That could be the Jets’ best option on Sunday, with Revis covering Bills No. 2 receiver Chris Hogan and the more athletic Cromartie teaming with a safety to cover Watkins.If the Jets can neutralize those two receivers with three defensive backs, they can devote their other eight defenders to stopping Buffalo’s top-ranked rushing attack. McCoy’s absence will hurt the Bills, but backup Karlos Williams has averaged an impressive 5.7 yards a carry and another backup, Mike Gillislie, has averaged 10.4 yards in limited playing time. Even with Revis struggling to handle Watkins, the Bills had more rushing yards (148) than passing yards (132) in their first meeting with the Jets.If the defense can do its job against an impaired Bills offense, then it will just take a slightly better performance from Fitzpatrick, who completed fewer than half his pass attempts and threw two interceptions in the teams’ first meeting, to win the game.In hypercompetitive New York City, debate can break out even about which hospital has bragging rights to the first birth of the year.Early Friday, New York City Health and Hospitals announced its first baby of 2016, a boy named Zayden Noel, born at exactly midnight at Coney Island Hospital.Within hours, Northwell Health’s Long Island Jewish Medical Center in eastern Queens called a news conference to highlight what it called New York’s first baby of 2016—and attached proof in a photograph of in-utero fetal monitoring showing the boy was born at exactly 12 a.m.“It sounds like it’s going to be a battle of the babies,” said Nicole Francois, spokeswoman for Coney Island Hospital. She promised to check Zayden Noel’s fetal monitoring for “the tiebreaker.”“Every hospital definitely wants to have the first baby because it’s a blessing,” she said.It can also be a marketing bonanza, and hospitals have long hoped to declare the first delivery, though such claims can be hard to verify. Diaper companies and toy makers often shower the new parents with gifts to share the spotlight. Some hospitals have refrained from the practice of late, however, citing concerns about the children’s privacy and possible abductions.After Ms. Francois tracked down Zayden Noel’s fetal monitoring data, she said it proved he also was born at the stroke of midnight.At one point, Northwell Health spokesman Terry Lynam asked a nurse if the fetal monitoring data could be broken down into tenths of seconds.The competition was fueled in part by the media. The news release from Coney Island Hospital specified Zayden Noel was the first baby born in 2016 in the city’s public health system. A flurry of news headlines called the baby the first in the city overall.Mr. Lynam said his news release attached the fetal monitoring data in response to the media hoopla.“It was 12 midnight on the dot,” he said. “I’m not saying there’s not others.”After further consideration, Ms. Francois agreed.When dancer Daniil Simkin joined American Ballet Theatre in 2008, the company gained a showman, able to fling himself through devilishly challenging jumps and turns that electrified audiences.Still the flashy trickster at age 28, Mr. Simkin is emerging as an entrepreneurial dance artist.This week, he brings to Chelsea’s Joyce Theater a program he conceived called “Intensio,” an evening of four works by contemporary choreographers that will be danced by Mr. Simkin and colleagues, many from Ballet Theatre where he is a principal dancer known for dramatic roles in classical ballets such as “Swan Lake” and “Le Corsaire.”It isn’t uncommon for dancers to generate gigs outside of their main company’s season: Ballet Theatre dancers work on a 36-week contract, leaving 16 unpaid weeks when it is easy to fall out of shape.But Mr. Simkin developed “Intensio” as an opportunity to make a personal artistic statement that melds ballet and technology. “To stay relevant, ballet has to be entertaining,” he said, adding that he is seeking a balance of substance and fun. “One can combine technology, pop culture and artistic integrity.”It helps that he has a game, slightly cornball sense of humor, as seen in his 2012 video “Simkin and the City,” directed by choreographer Alexander Ekman: Mr. Simkin awakes, in white tights and a lavish tunic, to take a princely stroll down the streets of New York City. He arrives with joyful jumps at the Metropolitan Opera House—only to slump when the doors are locked.Fun with ballet started early for Mr. Simkin, who was born in Russia to a pair of ballet dancers, Dmitrij Simkin and Olga Aleksandrova. Two years later, the family moved to Wiesbaden, Germany, near Frankfurt.Being home-schooled in ballet, as opposed to taking classes with several other students, groomed him as an individual dancer. His star quality won him major awards as a teenager.It was an unusual upbringing, but one with a happy outcome.“He’s very close with his parents,” said fellow Ballet Theatre principal dancer Isabella Boylston, who is starring in “Intensio.” “If my mom had been my teacher, there is no way I would have been a ballet dancer.”Mr. Simkin said the family’s travels included organizing traditional ballet galas—shows typically structured as a long string of pas de deux, or duets, from classical ballets, as well as beloved solos that show off virtuoso stars.With “Intensio,” Mr. Simkin and his father collaborated on an evening that could create space for trying out ideas.The program’s final piece, “Islands of Memories” by Colombian-Belgian choreographer Annabelle Lopez Ochoa, features video projections suggesting ripples and other images that are cast onto the floor and respond to dancers’ movements in real time by way of infrared sensors.“The projection becomes one with the dance,” said Mr. Simkin.His interest in bringing a new element to dance is consistent with his personality, observed Kevin McKenzie, artistic director of Ballet Theatre. “He is always interested in how things work, what makes something work.”While the artistic concept for the show bloomed early, the practical side was elusive. So, he turned to the Joyce Theater, the nonprofit venue that more than a year ago joined with the talent agency Sunny Artist Management on an initiative that enables artists to produce shows, even while they are still dancing.The effort, said Linda Shelton, executive director of the Joyce, takes care of the paper work, like booking rehearsal studios or sending out pay checks, allowing the stage work to remain Mr. Simkin’s focus.“With his full time job as a dancer, it would have been impossible,” said Ms. Shelton.Mr. Simkin has had some crucial help from friends, who are creative heat-seekers themselves. Ms. Boylston produced and starred in a film “Early Sunday Morning,” to explore dance on camera. Also onstage will be Ballet Theatre principal James Whiteside, a frequent interpreter of the work of Jorma Elo, resident choreographer at the Boston Ballet who created “Nocturne/Etude/Prelude” on the “Intensio” program.Bringing these and other ballet dancers, who are accustomed to much larger stages, to the intimate setting of the Joyce is its own risk. So is asking some to dance in socks and creating a word “intensio” (from intensity, intention and integrity). But it is part of Mr. Simkin’s eagerness to mix things up.And this may be just the beginning. For several years, Mr. Simkin lived on the Upper West Side, in the stretch from the West 60s to the 80s known to the industry as the “Dance Belt.” It was convenient to studios and stages, but when he would dress up in more creative clothes, like drop-crotch pants, he didn’t feel at home. “People would look at me,” he said.In 2015, he moved to the Brooklyn neighborhood of Williamsburg. “I feel more connected to the pulse of my generation,” he said. “I love the energy. I feel like I can live a little.”Emails stored on former New York City Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly’s official computer were unintentionally deleted at the end of his time in office, city lawyers said this week in court filings in a federal class-action lawsuit.The city law department said the emails were lost when New York Police Department staff replaced Mr. Kelly’s desktop computer when he left the department in 2013. The city said in court filings the impact was minimal and denied wrongdoing, saying Mr. Kelly made sparing use of email and that much of his correspondence could be collected through other sources.But plaintiffs’ lawyers said the loss of the emails, regardless of intent, fit a pattern of evidence destruction and obfuscation by the city, an allegation at the center of a hotly contested issue in the lawsuit.“The city and Ray Kelly have a pattern of changing their story with regard to why they have not produced a single email from Ray Kelly’s files,” said attorney Elinor Sutton, who in June filed a motion in Manhattan federal court seeking sanctions against the city for failing to produce correspondence related to the case, including Mr. Kelly’s emails.A spokesman for the city law department declined to comment. The city has denied in past filings that evidence was intentionally destroyed.Mr. Kelly said he never deleted emails relevant to the case or ordered anyone else to do it. “I had no role whatsoever in how any NYPD personnel handled my email, its retention or deletion.”The city filings were earlier reported in the New York Daily News.Mr. Kelly, who served as police commissioner in the 1990s under Mayor David Dinkins and then for more than a decade under Mayor Michael Bloomberg, has been in the spotlight in recent days because of a spat over crime statistics with the current police commissioner, William Bratton.The revelation about Mr. Kelly’s emails came in filings in a lawsuit about the NYPD’s policies on summonses. The 2010 lawsuit alleges that NYPD officers issued summonses—tickets for alleged low-level misconduct—without probable cause and under department pressure to meet quotas. The NYPD has denied that there was a quota policy.U.S. District Judge Robert Sweet ruled in 2012 that the lawsuit could proceed as a class action, potentially covering hundreds of thousands of people who had been issued summonses since 2007 that were later dismissed for legal insufficiency.The case was scheduled to go to trial early this year but has been delayed since the plaintiffs alleged in June the city had destroyed evidence and failed to ensure relevant documents were retained.In a September court filing, the city dismissed the allegations as “nothing more than rank speculation.” It cited sworn statements from Mr. Kelly and others saying that police officials didn’t discuss NYPD policies over email and in some cases had a “lack of technological savvy.”On Wednesday, the city’s lawyers wrote to the court that “the majority” of Mr. Kelly’s locally stored emails had been deleted, saying NYPD staff hadn’t been informed of the duty to hold on to materials related to the case.Then, on Thursday, the law department filed a second letter, saying the city “did not mean to imply that all of former Commissioner Kelly’s emails were inadvertently deleted,” rather, that the loss was limited to emails older than three years that had been archived on the desktop rather than on a network.“The maximum universe of email at issue remains minimal, at best,” the city’s lawyer wrote, saying that court sanctions weren’t warranted.Ms. Sutton said the destruction of evidence, even if unintentional, could merit sanctions from the judge, “especially in a civil rights case affecting hundreds of thousands of people.” Mr. Kelly is the only named defendant in the case.The question of whether the NYPD had a policy governing the retention of emails—and whether that policy was communicated to the rank-and-file—has been at issue in the case, which turns in part on alleged internal correspondence about quotas for summonses.In June, the plaintiffs filed records of testimony showing that police officers didn’t know they were supposed to hold on to documents related to the lawsuit.A spokesman for the police department didn’t respond to questions about NYPD email retention policy.but said the department was working closely with the law department and the courts on the issue.