On the third floor of a tenement in Hell’s Kitchen, the sorceress awaits.The walls of her lair are ocher, the curtains green crushed velvet. Books of arcane knowledge with titles like “Talking to the Dead” line one wall from floor to ceiling.Customers file in. The sorceress wears a black velvet cape. Her dark hair hangs to her waist. She commands the spirits of the dead and reads cards with uncanny accuracy.It is, in one sense, just a show. The sorceress is a magician named Belinda Sinclair; her visitors — 10 people make a full house — have paid $65 or more to watch an intimate performance, “A Magicienne Among the Spirits,” in a secret location.But it is also a history seminar on women and magic, and on the mediums and clairvoyants and psychic healers — some scammers, some benevolent — that first flourished in New York more than a century ago in apartments like Ms. Sinclair’s.She calls the space her conjuring room. Only a few blocks from Times Square, it is crammed with more than 3,000 pieces of “female magician ephemera,” only part of her collection.And it is a portal to a realm where soothsayers and seeresses and magiciennes emerge from the shadows to claim their place as creators: makers of illusions that help people see past their limits.“Women, in one way or another, have been the quintessential Magi forever,” Ms. Sinclair said recently.Séances and trance demonstrations were held in concert halls and private parlors. The Fox Sisters amazed audiences by coaxing invisible spirits to respond to their questions with knocking and rapping noises. (One sister eventually confessed they made the noises themselves by cracking their joints.) Magazines were published here with names like The Spiritual Telegraph. Scientists studied spiritualists and sometimes concluded that their conjurings were legitimate.The Spiritualist Register of 1861 listed dozens of professional mediums in New York City. There were many more, Ms. Sinclair said, under the radar and out of reach of the tax man, including, as time went on, quite a few in her neighborhood.The soothsayers, Ms. Sinclair said, “came into Hell’s Kitchen, and they gutted these tiny spaces and tenements and created these sitting rooms.”“The stage is set,” she said. “Inside of a discreet parlor, a private dwelling, there seems a person who might be able to shed some light on how to navigate this world. She now becomes the one they seek.”A 1909 article in The New York Times, “One Thousand Fortune Tellers Plying Their Trade in New York City,” said that in the neighborhoods now known as Hell’s Kitchen and Chelsea, “There is a constant and ever increasing demand for their services.”Many of these mediums and fortunetellers were con artists who preyed on the gullible, just as today’s storefront psychics are often accused (and sometimes convicted) of doing. But some clairvoyants, The Times wrote, “are actually power for good in their particular communities.”“Since they know their people and the conditions about them,” The Times reported, “they are in a position to give much sound advice. They occupy the position of a priest or confessor.”Perhaps the most prominent spiritualist of the era was Helena Blavatsky, founder of the esoteric movement called theosophy. Her Theosophical Society was based in an apartment on West 47th Street less than a five-minute walk from Ms. Sinclair’s place, filled with what an 1877 Times article called “elegant and curious bric-a-brac,” like a miniature crocodile swinging from the ceiling.Madame Blavatsky would often channel spirits at the society’s gatherings there. “The whole room was rigged,” Ms. Sinclair said. “All of it.”That building, in a truly impressive bit of transformation, is now an Econolodge.At Ms. Sinclair’s conjuring room, a visitor immediately notices the books and pamphlets: “Secrets of Hazel Kolar, Queen of Mind Readers”; a tell-all autobiography by Lulu Hurst, “The Georgia Wonder,” put out by the Psychic Publishing Company.There are nuts-and-bolts manuals for the working illusionist, like “Conjurers’ Hydraulic and Pneumatic Secrets.” One large green-bound typewritten manuscript, maybe 500 pages long and without an author attributed, is called simply “Collected Secrets.” It details tricks like the Keating Substitution Wrinkle and Long Distance Thought Transmission.Tucked away are posters and prints of 19th-century magiciennes: a woman dressed in Viking-princess garb standing reflectionless before a mirror, a “prestigiatrice” pulling endless streamers from her mouth as men and women in fancy dress look on. In a drawer, there is a blob-shaped metal coin with a cross-legged mascot on the front and the name Anna Eva Fay, a stage medium who handed out the coins at her shows, circa 1905.Ms. Sinclair, who grew up in Chelsea and has been doing magic since she was 9, has been building her collection for more than 30 years. “I have the largest library in the world of female magician ephemera,” she said. “More than 10,000 pieces: documents, apparatus, books, the how-to’s of the past.” She hopes to turn her holdings into a traveling museum exhibition at which she would perform.Also tucked out of sight in her conjuring room are the switches and wires that aid her act.“I don’t want to say it’s rigged, but it is — rigged in the same way that séance rooms were back in the 19th century,” she said. “Some things explode, some things move around. Books fall off the shelves. Things happen.”On a recent Sunday afternoon, nine spectators squeezed into her parlor as she sat at a little table covered with black fabric and kept up a steady patter, rewinding and fast-forwarding through the centuries as her hands made things disappear and reappear.Ms. Sinclair asked a young woman to name a dead person she wished to invoke, then handed her a miniature xylophone. As the woman hit the notes, a bell hanging by a string from a metal bar across the room began to swing. The string burst into flame and the bell dropped.Ms. Sinclair went around the room asking everyone to name a dream.“To live in Rome,” said one woman, Rymn Massand.Ms. Sinclair shifted into motivational-speaker mode. (She is also a hypnotist and a corporate consultant.) “At the moment of commitment, the universe conspires to help us.”She handed another woman in the audience a small wooden box tied shut with a purple ribbon. She had Ms. Massand shuffle a deck and pick a card, write “Rome” and her name on it, put the card back and shuffle the deck again. The deck sat on Ms. Sinclair’s table.The woman with the box was instructed to offer it to Ms. Massand. “A dream does not belong in a box,” Ms. Sinclair said, and told Ms. Massand to remove the ribbon and open the lid. Inside was a playing card, folded in four. It was hers.Bewildered, grateful applause spread across the little room.Afterward, Ms. Massand, an art director, pronounced Ms. Sinclair “brilliant but also part therapist,” and added, “She brings you back to thinking things are possible.”That, Ms. Sinclair had said in an earlier interview, was the whole idea: “What I’m trying to show you is a lost art. And it has everything to do with making somebody feel better about themselves.”A truck pulled up at a small house with a brick porch and a garden on a recent afternoon, and a man wearing a hooded sweatshirt climbed out. A woman led him to the backyard. When they emerged a few minutes later, he was carrying a wire-mesh cage.The woman handed the man a check, and he put the cage into his truck. As he drove away, he murmured comforting words in the direction of his cargo. On this day it was a male raccoon, lured into a trap with a handful of cat kibble.Where, exactly, was the man taking the animal? “I’m not going to reveal that,” he said. “No one is going to reveal that.”The episode did not happen in the countryside or the suburbs, but in the middle of Brooklyn, in South Park Slope.The woman, Wendy Hooker, a retired designer of window displays, had first called the trapper in August after seeing a dozen raccoons “wilding” in her yard, as she put it. This one, caught in December, was among the last of the bunch.“They were trashing my grapevine, beating my cat,” Ms. Hooker said. “It was like a frat party. They were insane.”Though New York may be better known for its rat population, the city abounds in raccoons. Their precise numbers are not known, but their encounters with people have increased: The city’s 311 help line received 1,581 inquiries about raccoon control in 2015 as of mid-December, up from 936 in all of 2014, according to official data.And trappers like the one hired by Ms. Hooker say they are getting more and more requests to remove the animals, in all five boroughs, but particularly in Brooklyn.Here is the tricky part: City law dictates that any captured raccoon must be killed in a humane fashion, because raccoons are known to carry rabies. But many trappers, as well as homeowners who do the job themselves, say they transport raccoons to parks or wilderness areas and set them free instead, because they don’t have the heart to do what is legally required.Indeed, many of the trappers who were interviewed expressed misgivings about exterminating healthy raccoons — displaying an empathy they did not feel for, say, roaches or bedbugs.“It used to be a little different,” said the man who took the raccoon from Ms. Hooker’s yard, and who asked to be identified only as Don because he releases raccoons rather than killing them. “I am in this for three generations. I go back to the time of the drowning barrel. Guys who trapped animals used to have a 55-gallon drum, and you’d just upend the cage and dump it into the barrel.”“Now,” he continued, “everybody is just releasing them. They’re letting them go in any quiet place.”The problem, experts say, is that from there, the animals tend to wander into the nearest neighborhood. People see wooded areas as the animals’ natural habitat, where they belong. But these are city raccoons that tend to make a U-turn for civilization when dropped off in nature, said Stanley D. Gehrt, a wildlife ecologist at Ohio State University who has studied urban raccoons for two decades. “When you take them and drop them off in a natural environment, they’re going to look for buildings,” he said. “It’s what they’re used to.”And so, it appears, the spread of raccoons is being aided by the very people employed to combat it.A special license from the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation is required to remove “nuisance wildlife” such as raccoons. Officials at the department, which has licensed around 100 trappers in the city, said local health departments have jurisdiction over raccoons and other rabies-carrying species. A spokesman for the city’s health department said trappers were not permitted to release raccoons caught on a homeowner’s property elsewhere, “and if they are doing it, they’re doing it illegally.”Sean Casey, who runs an animal-rescue organization in Brooklyn, said he received calls about raccoons “almost daily.” He said he turned away the callers seeking removal because of the city’s laws on raccoons and his group’s no-kill policy, and responded only in emergencies, like a recent episode involving a hefty raccoon stuck in a roof gutter. But Mr. Casey said he could understand the tendency on the part of some trappers to relocate the animals.“You’re trying to find some balance between laws and emotion,” he said. “No one wants to put an animal to sleep, especially not a healthy animal who is just in the wrong place at the wrong time.”Some trappers say they abide by the law. Chaim Silver, a trapper from Brooklyn, said he had killed raccoons using a carbon-dioxide chamber “because all rabies-vector species have to be euthanized.” He acknowledged that many of his peers released raccoons, but said the real problem was the absence of any management of the issue. “There’s no real control,” he said. “Only trappers. And if trappers don’t kill them, they’ll just reproduce.”Raccoons are often thought of as forest-dwelling creatures, but they can reach a very high density in cities, said Samuel I. Zeveloff, a professor of zoology at Weber State University in Utah and the author of “Raccoons, A Natural History.”“They’re truly incredible in their adaptability,” Professor Zeveloff said. Raccoons are omnivorous and opportunistic, easily switching from eating grubs or bird eggs to devouring human and pet food, and from living in tree hollows to inhabiting attics and chimneys. This flexibility, combined with a relative lack of predators, can lead to rapid population growth.Chris Nagy, a wildlife biologist and a founder of the Gotham Coyote Project, which has set up night-vision cameras around the city to study coyotes and other urban wildlife, said of raccoons that “they’re basically everywhere; they’re in every park we’ve looked at.”New Yorkers love the animals’ antics. In Central Park last year, a “pizza raccoon” was seen tucking into a slice in the branches of a tree. In Brooklyn, an apparently drunk raccoon staggered through a beer distributor’s warehouse. Images of others have appeared on social media, climbing building facades, fire escapes and even tightrope walking along electrical cables.But what experts call raccoons’ “synanthropic trend” — their capacity to thrive among humans — can also feel invasive. Female raccoons looking for a den to deliver their kits, as the offspring are called, can squeeze through vents and chimneys, tear through screens and lift up shingles with their dexterous forepaws.For a few years, William and Malya Levin could hear the loud movements of a raccoon above their Park Slope apartment. “It sounded like a large dog,” Mr. Levin said. Then they endured the stench of what they believed was a kit that had fallen into a cavity in a wall and died. Later, the Levins knocked a hole in their kitchen wall to extract another kit. (They called the exterminator Nice Jewish Boys Who Kill Bugs, which removed the raccoon and said it had been taken to a rehabilitator outside the city.)Raccoons have mauled a chicken being raised in a Crown Heights backyard and frequently fight with feral cats. When threatened, they growl, hiss and screech.In Sunset Park, when residents of a walk-up discovered a raccoon family living in an unused chimney, the mother fled down a fire escape, screeching, and then two of her kits hurled themselves off the roof. The kits survived, but “it was a traumatic night,” one resident, Michael Fleshman, said.Raccoons can also cause problems with what they leave behind.In Carroll Gardens last year, at least two raccoon families moved onto one block. Antonia Martinelli, who chronicled the invasion on her blog The Momtropolis, noted the animals’ unnerving habit of staring in people’s windows from fire escapes. But it was “the sheer amount of waste, mounds and mounds of it,” that Ms. Martinelli said drove her neighbors to contact Assemblywoman Jo Anne Simon. Raccoon feces can carry roundworm.Ms. Simon, Democrat of Boerum Hill, said that when she had asked for reports about raccoons, she heard from dozens of families across a broad swath of Brooklyn. “It’s not one block at all,” she said. “We went to a ton of block parties. Nobody cared about the flu shots. I couldn’t push that piece of paper if my life depended on it. Raccoons were the hot topic.”When raccoons appear, residents often call 311. Many are surprised to hear that it is the property owner’s problem to address: Unless a raccoon appears diseased or dangerous, the city will not remove it.In recent years, the number of rabid raccoons in the city has been small. In 2015, there were just four cases, all on Staten Island. Around five years ago, though, rabies tore through Central Park’s raccoons, infecting dozens.A city brochure about raccoons cautions homeowners against capturing the animals and advises contacting a licensed trapper. Still, most trappers who were interviewed said they were unaware that the city prohibited relocation and openly admitted to doing it.“Correct,” said an employee of the Brooklyn firm Bugs Are Gone Exterminating and Wildlife Control, who did not give a name. “We relocate.”“If they’re acting funny, we euthanize them,” said Abraham Meirovitz of Pest Off Exterminating, also in Brooklyn. Otherwise, he said, they are taken to “like, a state park.”For $100 to $300 per trap, trappers will check traps daily and make unlimited raccoon runs. Most said they released raccoons at least five miles from where they were caught, but in keeping with state law, not across county lines — meaning that most raccoons caught in Brooklyn stay in Brooklyn.Trappers have been dropping raccoons all over Brooklyn for years, at Floyd Bennett Field and Prospect Park, on golf courses and sports fields, even in tiny parks in the densest neighborhoods.The animals are also let go in less woodsy settings, from vacant properties to desolate spots like a car lot next to the Metropolitan Detention Center in Sunset Park. The Gowanus area was once neglected, industrial and dimly lit — perfect for unloading a few raccoons, trappers said — but has become too lively.Raccoon drops mainly happen under cover of night or where there is little traffic. Yet many trappers are not always stealthy. Walid Smith, of A-List Exterminator, recently caught five raccoons nesting in a roof in East New York. He said he drove them to a favorite spot in the light of day.“Prospect Park is perfect,” Mr. Smith said.Asked about raccoons’ being released in city parks, Sarah Grimké Aucoin, the Parks Department chief of education and wildlife, said, “We’re not aware of it happening at a large scale.” She added: “If it were happening in a large way, we would notice an increase in the raccoon population” — and in disease rates.A Brooklyn trapper who would be identified only by the name Bob said he used to leave raccoons at a rehabilitation center on Staten Island. “I loved them,” he said. “The raccoons would crawl up your arm.” But the center closed years ago. The only places left to take the animals, he said, were parks. “To me it’s 100 percent moral,” he said. “But it’s not 100 percent legal.”Stephanie Bell, a cruelty casework director with the Cruelty Investigations Department of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, said that both killing the animals and relocating them were inhumane. “Trapping in and of itself is traumatic,” she said.“It is far better to implement humane deterrents,” she added, listing trash-can bungee cords, pepper-based repellents, plastic garden fencing, and “predator effigies, like fake coyotes.”The Jamaica Bay Wildlife Refuge lies on the city’s southeast edge. Along with Floyd Bennett Field and the Marine Park Golf Course across the bay, it serves as perhaps the biggest raccoon dumping ground in the city.“We don’t kill them,” said an exterminator from Queens who said he could not provide his name without his employer’s authorization. “We take it to the refuge.”There is evidence of the consequences in Broad Channel, a Queens neighborhood of wooden homes on stilts, near the refuge. “The neighborhood has been invaded like crazy,” said Peter Perugini, a trapper with Above All Pest Management in Nassau County.Mr. Perugini said he had removed raccoons from four Broad Channel homes last year and euthanized them. He described “lots of property damage.” One family, he said, had been forced to rip off their roof and pull out the insulation because it was caked in feces.In the refuge, shore-nesting birds and diamondback terrapin turtles have suffered as a result of the raccoons’ arrival, said Russell L. Burke, a Hofstra University biology professor and terrapin expert.Just three decades ago, there were no raccoons in the area, he said. He added that now, “the terrapin population is crashing.” Raccoons ate 95 percent of the terrapin eggs at the refuge in 2015, he said.“There’s no enforcement,” Professor Burke said. “We have seen trappers release them at the refuge. They’re commonly misinformed, and they don’t want to kill them either. But it’s a really bad idea.”In 2015, Brad Lander, a City Council member from Brooklyn, introduced a bill that would create a wildlife management advisory board to “recommend policies to preserve and promote biological diversity and the humane treatment of wildlife.”The bill was prompted not by the raccoon problem but by a goose-culling incident in Prospect Park in 2010, a spokesman for Mr. Lander, Democrat of Park Slope, said in an email. But the spokesman said that it would “theoretically address a range of wildlife, including raccoons.”Previous efforts by elected officials to address raccoon management have foundered. Professor Burke said the issue was too contentious for lawmakers to take on because of animal-rights activists. “No one wants to tackle it,” he said. “It’s on the level of feral cats.”Ms. Hooker, the South Park Slope homeowner, first spotted a raccoon 11 years ago while brushing her teeth. It was peeking through the skylight “like a masked bandit,” she recalled. “But it was just doing reconnaissance.”In the years that followed, raccoons invaded her neighbor’s property. Then they came onto hers, drawn by grapevines, berry patches and a peach tree.At first, she and her husband would “just laugh when we saw three little peach pits in the birdbath,” she said, adding, “We figured we had enough peaches for everybody.” But once the population began to grow, that attitude changed.The raccoons rolled back the grass in the yard like a carpet, looking for grubs. They congregated and made noise. “The kits make a weird little kitten-y noise like ‘wa-rooo,’” Ms. Hooker said, rolling the “r,” “and the mothers screech.”She kept them away for a time with a motion-activated sprinkler, “but,” she said, “it does tend to water one’s husband when he is taking out the trash.”Her patience ran out in August, after what she called the wilding. She had already called 311 and was asked if she had been bitten. When she said no, she learned she was on her own. She found Don on the Internet.Don said he had trapped and released more than 30 raccoons last year. He caught eight raccoons and an opossum in Ms. Hooker’s yard.He had told her where he released the animals, she said, but “that’s our little secret.” They were far enough away that they would not come back, she said.Don arrived at the secret location just before dark. A well-worn trail led to a stand of trees. He placed a cage on the ground and slid open the back door. For a moment, the animal stood still.“O.K., Rocky,” he said, “You can’t stay in there forever, buddy.”The raccoon backed out and loped down the trail.Cherry Jones may have played the president on the Fox series “24,” but she admits to being a “theater snob” who always thought she would do her best work on the stage. Then she saw the first season of “Transparent,” the critically lauded series on Amazon, chronicling the life of Maura Pfefferman (Jeffrey Tambor), who comes out to her adult children as a transgender woman.“Why, oh, why can’t I be on a show like that?” Ms. Jones asked.Ms. Jones, 59, had to wait only a few months for her wish to come true. Jill Soloway, the creator of “Transparent,” called her with a proposal for the second season: She wanted Ms. Jones to play a swaggering, stately poetry professor named Leslie Mackinaw, modeled on the radical feminist poet Eileen Myles (whom Ms. Soloway had just started dating). Mackinaw has a complicated relationship with Maura and her daughter Ali, played by Gaby Hoffmann.“We Skyped, and she told me the arc, and I just couldn’t believe Jill was talking to me,” Ms. Jones said. “And within weeks, I found myself in a scene with Gaby Hoffmann and Jeffrey Tambor. I was such a fan I could barely look at them. It was like I had just walked out of my living room into an iconic American television show.”Below are excerpts, edited and condensed, from a conversation about Ms. Jones’s experience working on the show and what she has coming up next.Q. Your character, Leslie Mackinaw, is based on the real-life poet Eileen Myles. Did you know that going into it?A. In that first Skype, Jill asked me if I knew who Eileen was, and I said, sadly, that I did not. She mentioned that they were seeing one another, and that the idea had come for this older poetry professor and Ali to have a kind of relationship. But I’m not really playing Eileen; I could never capture the charisma of Ms. Myles. We are actually together in three different scenes, so if I really had been trying to do Eileen, it would have been even more intimidating than it was.Q. Why do you think Ms. Soloway thought of you to play Leslie?A. Well, I think it was important to her that I was a bona fide older lesbian. But it was so funny. I said to Jill: “All my life I’ve been gay and have always known I was gay. I was a tomboy and always thought I was pretty masculine.” So when she said, “You’re going to be playing this great dude dyke professor,” I thought, Perfect. And then I realized, I am such a girl. I had to really work on my dude dykeness. Thanks to Eileen Myles, I got my hair cut into this short style. It’s changed my life. I feel semi-hip now.Q. A lot of your character’s arc focuses on tensions between radical feminists and the transgender community. Did you know about those issues beforehand?A. You know, before working on this show, I didn’t know a trans person well at all. And now I am surrounded by all these trans writers and actors who are leading the way and teaching me so much. Intellectually, I understand both sides of the argument my character engages in, but as someone who tries to love all human beings, I think it’s just ridiculous in the end. Often, trans women have no safe place to turn. I certainly don’t want to be on the side of those who make their lives more difficult. It seems absurd in this day and age, especially when we are just tiny specks in the universe.Q. How do you feel about being involved in a show that touches on gender in a new way? “Transparent” pushes a lot of boundaries.A. It is so rare in any form of American entertainment that you feel like you are making a difference. I sort of feel like it is the 21st century’s version of “All in the Family.” That was a show when I was a kid in the ’70s that was opening people’s eyes and dealing with prejudice and addressing a couple of centuries’ worth of baggage, and doing it nightly for 40 million people. I wish “Transparent” could get out to that many people.Q. What’s next for you? I know you are going to be in the mini-series based on Stephen King’s novel “11/22/63,” about the day John F. Kennedy died.A. Yes, I was shooting “Transparent” at the same time I was shooting “11/22/63.” I would play Leslie Mackinaw and then get on a plane to Toronto and play Lee Harvey Oswald’s mother. The characters were as divergent as they could be. It was like I was in my own little rep company. I know for certain we are taking “The Glass Menagerie” to the Edinburgh Festival and Dublin for three months next year, and I am so excited. Hopefully Zach Quinto and Celia Keenan-Bolger and Brian J. Smith can join us again. How cool to get to go from Leslie Mackinaw to Amanda Wingfield! I’m having the kind of year actors live for.Q. You are so closely associated with the New York theater scene. Are you glad to be expanding into more television work?A. Theater will always be my home, but I remember Julie Harris and Frances Sternhagen beating advice into my head when I was being a little theater snob in the ’90s. They said, “Darling, if you want to work when you are older, you have got to diversify.”On the heels of Bill Cosby’s arrest on sexual assault charges, a federal judge in Massachusetts has delivered further bad news for the entertainer, ruling that his wife of almost 52 years, Camille, can be deposed in a civil case filed against him by seven women who say he defamed them.Mr. Cosby’s legal team had sought to block Mrs. Cosby, 71, from being forced to give testimony on a variety of grounds.But United States Magistrate Judge David H. Hennessy ruled Thursday that her deposition should go ahead, and decided against limiting the scope of the questioning. Mr. Cosby’s lawyers said Friday that they would appeal the ruling.The deposition is scheduled for Wednesday. Mrs. Cosby, who was her husband’s business manager, is likely to face questions about what she knows about his treatment of women. The lawyers for the seven women have also requested that Mr. Cosby give a deposition in the same case next month.The women have all said that Mr. Cosby, 78, sexually assaulted them many years ago, but they could not file civil suits directly related to those assertions because of the statute of limitations. Instead, they sued Mr. Cosby for defamation, saying they were branded as liars after coming forward over the past year when Mr. Cosby’s lawyers and other representatives dismissed their accounts of sexual assault as fabrications.Mr. Cosby, who has denied the allegations, has since countersued, saying the women’s accusations defamed him.On Wednesday, in a criminal case, a prosecutor in Montgomery County, Pa., charged Mr. Cosby with aggravated indecent assault. Andrea Constand, a former employee of Temple University, claims he drugged and sexually assaulted her in 2004. Mr. Cosby, who has denied the accusation and said the encounter was consensual, is free on $1 million bail.When word gets around, the sleeper hit of the Metropolitan Opera season could be the new production of Bizet’s “Les Pêcheurs de Perles” (“The Pearl Fishers”) that opened on Thursday night, a New Year’s Eve gala event. When a major house presents a new staging of a repertory staple, like Verdi’s “Otello” or, for that matter, Bizet’s “Carmen,” the creative team is under pressure to come up with something fresh, to make a statement that stands out. With a lesser-known work like “The Pearl Fishers,” generally deemed an appealing but flawed opera (patches of soaring music, a justly famous duet, colorful choral writing, but an uneven score with a stilted libretto), the challenge is different and more liberating: The production must make a case for the overlooked opera, must bring out its riches without refashioning its essence.The British director and filmmaker Penny Woolcock, working with a dream cast (featuring the soprano Diana Damrau, the tenor Matthew Polenzani and the baritone Mariusz Kwiecien), the great Met chorus and the formidable conductor Gianandrea Noseda, delivers in this sensitive and insightful production, originally created by the English National Opera in London, where it was first presented in 2010. The only previous performances of the opera at the Met were a century ago, in 1916.Bizet was 25 in 1863 when the manager of the Théâtre Lyrique in Paris offered him a libretto for “The Pearl Fishers,” a makeshift effort with a plot steeped in Orientalist exotica and propped up by a couple of implausible coincidences. Set in Ceylon (Sri Lanka, today) in ancient times, the story tells of the fishermen Nadir and Zurga, who have been friends since childhood. We soon find out that, as young men, they both fell for an unattainable woman, Leila, a priestess of the Hindu god of creation, Brahma. Rather than compete for her, they pledged to forget her and affirm their lasting friendship. When the opera opens, years have gone by. Nadir arrives unexpectedly, to the delight of Zurga.In a bold stroke, Ms. Woolcock, who made her Met debut in 2008 directing John Adams’s “Doctor Atomic,” opens this production by bringing the title of the opera to life with theatrical magic that transforms the stage into a murky expanse beneath the sea. Behind a scrim with video projections (by 59 Productions) and lighting effects (by Jen Schriever), three actors dangling from unseen wires (costumed by Kevin Pollard as traditional pearl fishers), swim and dart about in the waters searching for oysters in the sea bed.Ms. Woolcock’s updating of “The Pearl Fishers” works beautifully. She places the story in an unspecified Asian locale during modern times. When the scrim lifts, we see a coastal shantytown with multilevel, rickety wood platforms and a low dock with lapping water at the shoreline. (Dick Bird designed the sets.) The choristers portray the villagers, wearing a mix of traditional and modern clothing, some in saris and sandals, some in trousers and T-shirts, all in shades of earth and rust. There are people reading newspapers or fiddling with electric lights. But others are occupied with activities that have gone on unchanged for centuries: Women weave flowers into garlands; men burn incense; fishermen mend their nets. This could be a village in Bangladesh or Indonesia today.In Ms. Woolcock’s reading of the opera, the sea is a major character. Though the fishermen depend upon it for their livelihoods, they fall victim to its power. In the opening chorus, the people voice their fears of the sea while singing rituals to chase away evil spirits. A priestess comes among them to pray for good fortune. That young woman is (you guessed it) Leila.Zurga prods his townspeople into urgent business: A new village headman must be chosen. Mr. Kwiecien is an ideal Zurga. Singing with burnished sound and lyrical richness, he looks like a natural leader, handsome, confident and something of an operator. Many people hold up ready-made photos of Zurga, which suggests a stealth campaign has been underway. Chosen by acclamation, Zurga makes clear what this means in a few phrases Mr. Kwiecien delivers with cagey intensity. “So, you are giving me complete authority?” he asks. Yes, the villagers assure him.Mr. Polenzani makes a poignantly believable Nadir, who arrives soon after the election of his old friend. Nadir has secretly followed Leila to the village. First, though, he reunites with Zurga during the great duet of friendship, “Au fond du temple saint.”In this piece, the men reaffirm their promise to avoid Leila. To young men like Nadir and Zurga, a bond of friendship would have been a life-defining attachment. Yet, from the way this well-known duet is staged here, the strains of such a pledge are made apparent.At first the men sing from separate sides of the stage, each lost in memories of the alluring Leila. But as they turn toward each other, they join together. Their ardent, soaring performance, supported by the glowing playing Mr. Noseda drew from the orchestra, brought fresh urgency to the familiar music.Later in this act, when Nadir is alone, he confronts the truth in the enraptured aria “Je crois entendre encore.” Despite his pledge, Nadir did for a time have an illicit romance with Leila; he still yearns for her. Mr. Polenzani sang this haunting aria of remembrance with wondrous lyrical tenderness while conveying the music’s gently swaying gait. And if you think it’s impossible for a tenor to cap phrases of a dreamy aria with melting, pianissimo high notes, report to the Met to hear Mr. Polenzani demonstrate how this is done superlatively.Ms. Damrau brings brilliant coloratura agility, radiant sound and charisma galore to the role of Leila. Her intensity comes with risks, since Leila is a virgin priestess who must keep her vows on pain of death, an edict enforced by the high priest Nourabad (Nicolas Testé, a fine bass-baritone), who accompanies her. In Act II, when Leila and Nadir, having reunited, sing an impassioned, fraught duet, Ms. Damrau’s body twitches with spasms as her character’s suppressed longings burst out. At times her gestures were a little histrionic. Still, Ms. Woolcock makes explicit what’s taking place by having Nadir unwrap the layers of saris and skirts that Leila wears. And Ms. Damrau sang dazzlingly.The lovers are discovered and condemned to death. At the end of the act, a violent storm breaks out, sending the villagers into peals of anguished singing. Video images suggest a tsunami-like deluge, a vivid reminder of the 2004 earthquake in the Indian Ocean that caused tens of thousands of deaths in, among other countries, Sri Lanka.In Act III, Zurga, who has the authority to stop the death sentence, confronts his conflicted feelings in an intense aria that provides Mr. Kwiecien one of his finest moments at the Met to date. Drenched by the storm, Zurga hides out in his office with reams of documents stacked up along an entire wall. He grabs a beer from a refrigerator and broods as he realizes that neither Nadir nor Leila truly love him. That’s what he craves from both.Mr. Noseda conducts this often-criticized score as if every moment of the music matters deeply. The production, using a scholarly edition, hews to the original ending. After Zurga distracts the avenging villagers by setting their houses afire, he allows Leila and Nadir to flee. Alone, he awaits his fate — his people will soon realize what he has done. Bizet was not convinced that this ending was effective. If only he could have seen this production.AUSTIN, Tex. — For decades, the south steps of the State Capitol have served as a staging area for rallies on issues ranging from abortion to immigration rights, but Friday was the first time that demonstrators walked around here with handguns on their hips.On a chilly, overcast day, more than 100 Texans gathered carrying an array of holstered weaponry — Glocks, Smith & Wessons and more — to mark a change in the law that lets them openly display the fact that they are armed. The practice had been banned in Texas since 1871.Similar demonstrations were held in several other Texas cities.Epi Camacho, 34, a transit system driver from Dallas, was so eager to take advantage of the law that he said he arrived at the Capitol around 10:30 p.m. on New Year’s Eve and then symbolically unveiled his pistol — a Glock 23 — at the stroke of midnight. “It’s about time,” he said later.More than 40 states allow some type of open carry, but Texas is now the most populous state to do so. The change affects only a small fraction of Texans — 925,000 men and women with active state-issued licenses to carry a concealed firearm. Only those with concealed-handgun permits are allowed to openly carry weapons, and all must submit their fingerprints and pass a criminal background check.Supporters say that more public weapons will help deter would-be criminals, but opponents argue that there is no evidence that open-carry states are safer.“What we proved is that the sight of a firearm is not something to fear in the hands of law-abiding citizens,” said C. J. Grisham, a retired Army sergeant who formed Open Carry Texas in 2013.Some at the rally said they armed themselves to be part of the event but may not always openly display their weapons. “At times, I will,” said Armando Valladres, a first sergeant in the Army who is stationed at Fort Hood. “I just wanted to make a statement, but I’m glad I have the choice.”Mr. Grisham carried a holstered 9-millimeter semiautomatic on his belt and a concealed pistol in an ankle holster. Nearly everyone who spoke on the Capitol steps, or gathered in the crowd, made a similar fashion statement.“I just think it’s a step toward freedom,” said Ryan Allen, 26, a student from Longview who carried a Glock Model 20.After the rally, the gun carriers walked about five blocks along Congress Avenue, which leads from the Capitol through downtown Austin, and had lunch at a Subway restaurant that had agreed to let them in. No counterdemonstrations were held. Many businesses were closed for New Year’s Day, and few people were downtown in a city that is normally bustling on weekdays.To kick off 2015 a year ago, Trinity Wall Street presented a performance of Rachmaninoff’s Vespers by the Clarion Choir at St. Paul’s Chapel as part of its Twelfth Night Festival. Reviewing elsewhere that night, I couldn’t hear it, but to judge from all reports, the performance must have been stunning.When I first glanced at the program for the current festival and saw that Rachmaninoff was again scheduled for New Year’s Eve at St. Paul’s, I simply assumed that it was the Vespers music, and that Trinity had established it as an annual fixture. As well it might have: Beautiful and grandly mystical, the work exudes a spiritual force that is deeply moving and restorative.But no, weeks later I discovered that the work to be performed on Thursday was Rachmaninoff’s Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom. Written in 1910, five years before the Vespers, it is a work of similar scale, style and spirit, but unlike that composition, which has pretty much entered the standard repertory, the Liturgy is seldom performed except by specialist groups like the valuable Russian Chamber Chorus of New York.So much the better, then, that Clarion branched out. And its performance, with 26 strong singers led by the group’s artistic director, Steven Fox, was indeed stunning.Written for use in an actual service, the Liturgy has parts for a deacon, typically leading long litanies in a monotone chant, and freer parts for the celebrant. As is usually done in stage performance, Mr. Fox cut back some passages “tailor-made for a service,” according to a booklet note, “but which make less sense in the context of a concert performance.”As the deacon, the bass Philip Cutlip was wonderfully solid and, in a properly understated way, expressive. As the celebrant, the tenor Marc Andrew Day had greater freedom to soar, and his lines did so thrillingly. And the soprano Sherezade Panthaki sang a brief solo most attractively.All were also members of the superb chorus, which had obviously been finely drilled by Mr. Fox and well schooled in the pronunciation of Church Slavonic, presumably by a diction coach not identified. (If it was Mr. Fox, the more power to him.)You have to hope that with this presentation, Clarion has opened the way to a different kind of annual tradition: exploring the Russian liturgical repertory more broadly, perhaps starting with Tchaikovsky’s Vespers and Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom and continuing with the revelatory “Passion Week” of Maximilian Steinberg, which Clarion helped to unearth. And there is much more worthy repertory where all of that came from.If you thought the political debate over immigration has devolved into a cartoon, just wait until “Bordertown” arrives Sunday night to finish the job. This animated sitcom on Fox is as subtle and amusing as a brick border wall.In the Southwestern town of Mexifornia, a Border Patrol agent, Bud Buckwald (Hank Azaria of “The Simpsons”), works ineptly to secure the national boundary and his own sense of primacy in his country. His next-door neighbor Ernesto Gonzalez (Nicholas Gonzalez) laughs off Bud’s casual racism, but tensions are about to rise as Mexifornia considers a draconian anti-immigration bill.As in the political argument, “Bordertown” casts both sides in extremes. There are the Hispanic caricatures, like the tot at a barbecue who spikes Bud’s food with a blazing hot chili pepper from a bag marked Extra Caliente. There are the white caricatures, like Bud’s 5-year-old daughter, Gert (Missi Pyle), a pageant contestant who, for some reason, has a pronounced Honey Boo Boo Southern accent. Nearly everyone, white and brown, is drawn in a similar bulbous avocado shape.“Bordertown” is created by Mark Hentemann of “Family Guy” and produced by the “Family Guy” creator, Seth MacFarlane. It’s slavishly loyal to that show’s template. There’s the crass father figure; his dotty but more sensible wife, Janice (Alex Borstein); an awkward daughter Becky (Ms. Borstein again); and a shiftless son, Sanford (Judah Friedlander).Like Mr. MacFarlane’s other animated shows, “Bordertown” aspires to the issues-based comedy of Norman Lear. When Becky gets engaged to Ernesto’s liberal nephew, J. C. (Mr. Gonzalez), it feels like a tribute to the Archie-versus-Gloria-and-Meathead sparring of “All in the Family.”To the extent that “Bordertown” has politics, they’re mildly liberal. Bud resents Mexicans because so many have done better than him: “It’s like the Mexican has become The Man and I’ve become the Mexican!” Anti-immigrant ideologues are made to look ridiculous, firing unfortunates from a “deportation cannon.”But despite the show’s apt timing, the satire gets swallowed up by the hyperactive joke engine. There are so many cutaway gags that the show feels bored with itself. The social humor is curdled and mean, and the non sequitur jokes — like a visit to “Goofy’s rape room” at a knockoff version of Disneyland — play like “Family Guy” outtakes.The show’s most distinctive, slapstick running joke imagines the border battle as a Looney Tunes cartoon, where the roadrunner is a coyote: El Coyote, a wily immigrant smuggler who frustrates Bud’s elaborate attempts to capture him. (One involves a giant-spring contraption that might as well have ACME stamped on it.)It’s pointedly silly stuff, but also a sign of the anarchic comedy “Bordertown” could be if it could escape the shadow of Peter Griffin, the father on “Family Guy.” As it is, the show may appeal to “Family Guy” die-hards, but mostly gives viewers of all persuasions cause to run from the border.If they run to “Cooper Barrett’s Guide to Surviving Life,” debuting the same night on Fox, they’ll find a less offensive but more mundane sitcom masquerading as an inventive one.As the title character (Jack Cutmore-Scott) explains to the audience, the show’s premise is that no one ever teaches you what life is like after college. Well, no one, except every single-hangout-sitcom made since the show’s target 20-something viewers were zero-somethings. “No one told you life was gonna be this way,” the “Friends” theme said in 1994, and no one has stopped telling you since.“Cooper Barrett,” from the writer Jay Lacopo, loads itself up with narrative gimmicks: an in medias res opening, time jumps between 2011 and 2015, copious fourth-wall-breaking. It recalls the nonlinear gamesmanship of “How I Met Your Mother” (Mr. Cutmore-Scott has a Jason Segel vibe), but that’s way more ambition than a sitcom this unambitious requires.The show’s pilot is a little video encyclopedia of bad sitcom tics: Cooper’s henpecked older brother, Josh (Justin Bartha), married to the bossy Leslie (Liza Lapira), whom he calls a “fun-sucker”; the nerdy virgin friend Neal (Charlie Saxton); the eccentric “lovable jackass” Barry (James Earl). And of course, there’s Kelly (Meaghan Rath), the inevitable cool-girl love interest who spends much of her time rolling her eyes at the rascally Cooper.The real trouble is the guy in the title. A budding entrepreneur, Cooper is objectively annoying, a smug next-gen Ferris Bueller. Beginning and ending each episode with a worldly-wise homily — “When you’re in your 20s, you feel like you’re invincible” — he comes across less as a character than a pitchman in an ad campaign to sell insurance to millennials.There’s plenty of talent in “Cooper Barrett,” solid sitcom actors delivering crisp, writerly patter. (Kelly says that her ex-boyfriend’s fiancée is named Clementine, yet is somehow “not the ghost of a 1930s burlesque dancer.”) But these characters lack the genuine quirk of the ones on Fox’s “New Girl,” which returns Tuesday. Cooper Barrett might want to watch that show someday. He could use a guide of his own.PARIS — Deported to Birkenau at 15, she last saw her father in the camps when he slipped her an unimaginable onion and a tomato, before he was murdered at Auschwitz.Now 87, with failing eyesight and a renewed dread about Jewish life in Europe, Marceline Loridan-Ivens believes that the lessons of World War II are not being forgotten, because “these lessons were never learned.”In today’s France, after the Islamic State attacked ordinary Parisians in November and killed 130, she said in a recent interview, there is only a slow understanding that French society itself is at risk.“We kept saying, ‘It starts with the Jews and it will end with you,’ because the problem is serious and deep,” she said. “But no one wanted to hear the truth in the name of political compromises” after last January’s attacks by radical Islamists at the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo and at a kosher supermarket.“That situation led to the attacks of Nov. 13, and it’s only the start of it,” she said. “Now they target everyone, not only the Jews.”Ms. Loridan-Ivens, who has now written a memoir of her childhood experience in Auschwitz-Birkenau and her effort afterward to find a reason to live, has been provocative before. She shocked France after the Charlie Hebdo killings when she went on France Inter radio, in what was supposed to be a discussion of the 70th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz, and accused France of indifference to a new anti-Semitism.The French president, François Hollande, had called a huge rally in support of the values of the French Republic after the January killings. But, Ms. Loridan-Ivens asked, “do you believe the French would have gone into the streets if only Jews had been killed?” The interviewer was reduced to silence.In an interview in December in her Left Bank apartment, where she lives alone after the death of her second husband in 1989, she noted that previous killings of French Jews, for instance by Mohammed Merah in Toulouse in 2012, brought little reaction from the French public.The memoir, “But You Did Not Come Back,” will be published in English this month by Atlantic Monthly Press. It takes the form of a letter to her murdered father, Szlhama (Schloïme) Froim Rozenberg, a Polish Jew who came to France in 1919 in search of freedom.They were arrested together in 1943. She remembers him telling her, when they were at the Drancy internment camp in April 1944, awaiting transport to hell, “You will come back, perhaps, because you’re young, but I will not come back.”She writes to her dead father, who thought he could assimilate by buying a chateau in the countryside: “You had chosen France, she isn’t the melting pot you’d hoped for. Everything is getting tense again. We’re called ‘French Jews’; there are also French Muslims, and here we are face-to-face — I who had hoped never to take sides, or at least, to simply be on the side of freedom.”She feels French, she said in her memento-filled apartment, but has “a very complicated relationship” with France. “It’s the country that returned my father to his birthplace, Poland,” to die. “I can’t say that I’m disappointed with France — I lost any illusions a very long time ago.”Ms. Loridan-Ivens said she appreciated that France protected her but wished she had no need of such protection.For her parents, she said, France meant liberty, equality, fraternity. “They escaped Eastern Europe because they wanted freedom, to be able to go to school and university,” she said. “In France there was no pogrom. Life was tough, as they arrived penniless, but they worked hard, they wanted their children to go to school and become French.”But then came the occupation, and the betrayal. After the war, the family received a death notice from the government saying that her father had “died for France.” But he died “because he was Jewish,” Ms. Loridan-Ivens said. As she wrote to her father: “You did not really die for France. France sent you to your death. You were wrong about her.”After the war, Charles de Gaulle “said that the arrests of Jews had been done by the Germans, but it was a lie,” she said. “The French gave lists of Jews to the Germans and participated in the arrests. I was arrested by both.”Also in the aftermath, she said she tried to kill herself twice; her sister and brother later committed suicide. After multiple examinations in the camps by Josef Mengele and others, when she had to strip naked, she never again felt comfortable with her body, she said.“It’s as if it still bears the mark of the first man who ever looked at me, a Nazi,” she said. For a long time, “I associated getting undressed with death, with hatred, with the icy stare of Mengele,” who decided who would live and die.Ms. Loridan-Ivens married soon after the war, to Francis Loridan, a civil engineer who traveled for his work; the marriage quickly deteriorated, as did her adherence to the French Communist Party, which she joined for about six months. But she felt the need to testify, somehow, and she was a key figure in a film made in 1960, “Chronicle of a Summer,” where she talked about the camps.In 1962 she was a director of a controversial film, “Algeria, Year Zero,” and that year met an older and politically engaged Dutch filmmaker, Joris Ivens, and fell in love. Together, they made films about Communist China and North Vietnam, a devotion she now regards, said with a laugh, as “false, naïve and simplistic.”In 1993, four years after Mr. Ivens died, she began work on a feature film at Birkenau. It was released in 2003 under the title “La Petite Prairie aux Bouleaux” (“The Birch-Tree Meadow”), named after Birkenau, German for “birch tree meadow,” itself translated from the Polish Brzezinka.She asked the movie’s star, Anouk Aimée, to stretch out on a prison bed and speak the words the young Marceline told her father: “I loved you so much that I was happy to have been deported with you.”Today, Ms. Loridan-Ivens is one of some 160 living survivors of the 2,500 French Jews who returned after the war, of the 76,500 sent to Aushwitz-Birkenau.“There are many more good people in this world than we might imagine, yet they are fewer than there ought to be,” she said. “And sometimes, a small hero can arise and give us hope, although there are so many wicked and careless people, so many killers.“When I look at the world, I feel very pessimistic,” she said. “Yet maybe a little hero will wake up one day and save us all, but I’m not too sure about that.”The border wars between New York and New Jersey have seen fierce fighting over the years, from actual shots fired in the 18th century to trash-talking and legal wrangling over the ownership of Ellis Island almost into the 21st.Now, a librarian in the neutral territory of Massachusetts has uncovered a long-lost document from those tangled disputes: a hand-drawn map that may be the earliest surviving one showing New Jersey’s northern border where it is today.The map, which is owned by Harvard University, was created by the celebrated colonial surveyor Bernard Ratzer in 1769, at the request of a royal commission charged with settling the long-burning northern border dispute once and for all.It was found by John Overholt, a curator of rare books and manuscripts at the university’s Houghton Library, rolled up in a container and stacked with some uncataloged material.“I pulled it out just enough to get a sense of what it was and saw the name ‘Ratzer,’” Mr. Overholt said. “I thought, Gosh, this must be something important.”And after more than a year in a conservation lab, the map, which measures about 63 inches by 32 inches, has been digitized as part of a broader effort to put Harvard’s colonial North America manuscript material online.Ratzer is known as a maestro of early American maps. When an ultra-rare copy of his famous 1770 map of New York City turned up at the Brooklyn Historical Society in 2011, the discovery was front-page news.The newly uncovered New Jersey map, with its dense web of annotated alternate boundary lines for the northern border, may not have the same immediate eye-candy appeal. (It does not address disputes over New Jersey’s coastal borders.) But experts say it offers another glimpse of Britain’s attempts, on the eve of the American Revolution, to get its colonial house in order, cartographically speaking.“It’s a significant find, without a doubt,” said Matthew Knutzen, the director of the humanities and social science research division at the New York Public Library, and a former head of its maps division. “It marks the canonical version of the states’ shapes, and comes with a seal of approval.”Like Ratzer’s New York City map, the New Jersey map, Mr. Knutzen added, was all about “setting things straight.”“It was almost like the British were saying: ‘What’s going on with these crazy people in New Jersey? Can’t we figure this out already?’”The New York-New Jersey border dispute is one of the great rabbit-holes of American cartographic history. Confusion reigned almost from the beginning, thanks to a 1665 charter that, among other puzzling features, defined New Jersey’s northern boundary in relation to a branch of the Delaware River that no one could definitively locate.There was cross-border skirmishing throughout the first half of the 18th century, as well as sometimes vicious subdisputes, like riots that flared in the 1740s over the dividing line between East and West Jersey — despite the fact that the two territories had been amalgamated politically decades earlier.“Where you drew the northern border also had bearing on how New Jersey was divided in half,” Mr. Knutzen said.A royal commission to settle the northern boundary was declared in the 1760s, with Ratzer, a British Army officer, hired to do the surveying. The original copy of his hand-drawn map was presumably sent to the commission in London, but Mr. Overholt said he has been unable to determine if it survives in British archives.The map at Harvard, he said, appears to be a copy prepared for New York’s representatives to the commission, to rebut any appeal by New Jersey. It includes the border as surveyed by Ratzer as well as lines indicating alternate boundaries, including one showing the New Jersey-friendly “pretended settlement of 1719” — loaded language presumably added by New York’s representatives, Mr. Overholt said — and another giving New York a large chunk of present-day New Jersey.The Harvard map includes a notarized statement from Ratzer attesting that it was an accurate copy of his original for the commission, plus the additional lines. That same statement, Mr. Overholt said, is on a printed version of the map that appears in a rare 1770 pamphlet summarizing the controversy.“Our map is clearly the source,” Mr. Overholt said. (Ratzer’s map also became the basis for more widely distributed engraved maps of New Jersey published later in the 1770s.)The New York and New Jersey legislatures approved the compromise border in 1772. But they soon began squabbling over their coastal boundary, laying down their arms only after the Supreme Court ruled in 1998 — some 2,000 documents and 4,000 pages of testimony later — that while the parts of Ellis Island created by landfill were in New Jersey, the original part belonged to New York.The Harvard map may not revive the border wars. But Mr. Overholt said it was a welcome reminder of the political nature of cartography.“All maps are ideological statements about the world,” he said. “It’s really helpful to have a map where that’s so obvious.”