HAMBURG, Germany — It’s no surprise that Russia met President Obama’s expulsion of its diplomats, which he announced Thursday in response to the Kremlin’s efforts to manipulate the 2016 election, with a collective shrug. Moscow seems content to let the clock run out, knowing that on Jan. 20 Mr. Obama will be replaced by an admirer in the White House and an old friend in the State Department.But the changeover is bittersweet; President Vladimir V. Putin has also lost a beloved boogeyman. For the foreseeable future, the United States can hardly serve as Russia’s preferred enemy of the state. So guess who qualifies best as a new, well, boogeywoman? Angela Merkel.The German chancellor is a perfect target. Germany is holding general elections next autumn, and with politicians sympathetic to Moscow on the rise, she may well be running for her fourth term as the sole European leader willing to stand up to a newly assertive Russia.Since the annexation of Crimea in 2014, Ms. Merkel has been the most consequential voice for punishing Russia. The next year, she welcomed a million refugees into Germany, and pushed the rest of Europe to do the same — thus, in the view of Russian ethno-nationalists, diluting European culture. And she still believes in a united, integrated European Union, a bastion of liberal values and, at least implicitly, a political and economic bulwark against Russia.It seems that Russia may be planning to do to Ms. Merkel and her allies in 2017 what it did to Hillary Clinton and other Democrats in the United States in 2016.After all, last year the same hackers who broke into the Democratic Party’s computers, known online as Fancy Bear or Sofacy Group, attacked the German Parliament’s network; they are also accused of stealing documents from individual members of Parliament. Every revelation about how Russia interfered in the American elections gives Germany a foretaste of what is already looking to be the nastiest, toughest, most exhausting election campaign in modern German history.That foretaste, though, is also Germany’s one advantage. We know something about Russians’ technical abilities and methods, and, even more important, we have a developing sense of where they’re coming from ideologically — and how that will guide their attacks.Here, we can draw valuable lessons from the Cold War. What Russia does today is very much the digital version of what we Germans, before 1989, termed “Zersetzung.” The term is hard to translate, but it’s best described as the political equivalent of what happens when you pour acid on organic material: dissolution and disintegration.The methods of Zersetzung are to cast doubt on the basic norms of the Western liberal order and its institutions; to distort and thereby discredit the purposes of the European Union, NATO and the free-market economy; to erode the credibility of the free press and free elections. The means of Zersetzung include character assassination and, through the spreading of lies and fake news, the creation of a gray zone of doubt in which facts struggle to survive.We have seen all of this before, employed by the K.G.B. and the East German Stasi: psychological warfare, rumor-mongering, schemes to bribe politicians and then expose them as criminals. They used it both internally, against dissidents, and externally, against Western enemies. Mr. Putin and his former K.G.B. colleagues should know that, this time, we have a better sense of their dirty tricks, and how they have updated Zersetzung for the internet.The government has its role to play, but so do journalists and civil-society groups. We journalists will put pressure on companies like Facebook and Twitter to be vigilant against fake news; we will expose the patterns of Russian agitprop where we see them.But it is just as important to be clear about the ideology driving these attacks. In September, my newspaper, Die Zeit, joined with the broadcaster ZDF to reveal details of Moscow’s highly sophisticated disinformation campaign. We had gained access to roughly 10,000 emails that showed how ideologues close to the Putin administration advised the pro-Russian rebel government in Eastern Ukraine.Among the emails was a document that set “thematic guidelines” which rebel-allied media outlets had to follow — if necessary by distorting facts and faking news. “Today’s Russia is no longer the Russia of the 1990s, but is working unwaveringly to re-establish the strength of the Soviet Union. Today’s Russia is on an equal footing with the West,” it read. “A global diplomatic war is underway. But the West is also suffering in this war, and it is still unclear who will prevail.”No doubt similar marching orders have been given to the armies of hackers who were sent to attack the Democrats, and who are now plotting attacks on Germany.It is quite clear who will lose. Mr. Putin and his reckless fakers should be aware that the only thing they will harvest from this mendacity is another lost generation of Russians who could serve their country better by being given the opportunity for honest and constructive intellectual challenges. A government that maligns the outside world to make feel Russia great again is doomed to fail — as it failed before.SAN FRANCISCO — Last month, Federico Viticci, who runs MacStories, a news site devoted to Apple and its products, made a change in how the site publishes articles for mobile gadgets. MacStories, he declared, would no longer support a Google-backed method for faster loading of mobile web pages, called AMP.Mr. Viticci said MacStories’s pages already loaded quickly without Google’s help. He also didn’t like the idea of Google’s obscuring his site’s links — with AMP, they read google.com instead of macstories.net — in the interest of expediency.“Feels good” to no longer use the Google standard, Mr. Viticci wrote on Twitter.Mr. Viticci’s experience underscores the ambivalent relationship that some web publishers have developed with what was supposed to be Google’s great boon for mobile publishing. When Google introduced Accelerated Mobile Pages, or AMP, in October 2015, it said the new format would help publishers with one of their biggest headaches on smartphones: Browsing mobile websites was so frustratingly slow that many smartphone users abandoned pages before they opened.AMP has since delivered on its promise of faster mobile web pages. Even so, publishers — of smaller sites, especially, or individual bloggers — are beginning to worry about giving too much control to Google in exchange for zippier web pages. What’s more, Google’s approach to AMP has rankled some critics already suspicious of the company’s outsize influence on the internet.Much of the publishers’ unease is rooted in Google’s presentation of AMP stories, which appear as if they are Google articles. That’s because Google, to speed up AMP, stores copies of publisher’s pages and serves them from its own internet network. So when a reader clicks an AMP link, the address bar at the top of the page displays google.com instead of the actual web address from the publisher.“It looks like a Google story,” said Danny Sullivan, founding editor of Search Engine Land, a web search news site. “That’s part of the reason why you’re getting the nervousness from some of these publishers.”Google said that it had designed AMP to prioritize speed and that it wanted to help — not harm — publishers, who get full accounting of traffic, data and advertising revenue. Publishers also retain control of their content and design. Google said serving up articles from its own internet network was the best way it knew to achieve the AMP speeds, which are as much as four times faster than a regular mobile web page.“We always try to present the content that is the best experience,” said David Besbris, Google’s vice president of engineering.Google started AMP in 2015 because it worried that competitors like Facebook were drawing web surfers inside their networks with faster-loading articles and keeping them there. For Google, those rival sites were siphoning people away from the open internet, where the search company — which created the internet’s most valuable property by organizing the expanse of the World Wide Web — typically operates.Now articles that use AMP appear prominently in Google search results on mobile devices. A Google search for “Donald Trump” on a smartphone brings back a horizontal carousel of articles from media organizations like Slate and The Wall Street Journal at the top of the page. If someone clicks the first story in the carousel, he or she is moved into a browser and can swipe instantly from one story to another without leaving Google’s network.Another benefit of AMP for Google is that it keeps activity on the web, and away from apps. More browsing on the internet means more web searches, and, in most cases, that means more Google. This is even more pronounced on mobile devices, where Google accounts for about 95 percent of all global web searches, according to StatCounter.Since AMP’s launch, the open-source project has won over many big publishers who praise Google’s responsiveness. They say readers are engaging more with ads on AMP because they actually get to the stories and it’s a better experience. There are more than 600 million pages running AMP on over 700,000 different domains, including publishers such as The New York Times and non-media sites like eBay.David Gehring, a former Google employee and the chief executive of Relay Media, a company that works with publishers to convert pages to AMP, said the format had been positive for publishers grappling with shrinking revenue in the shift from print to online advertising. He estimated that up to 10 percent of mobile web content was already on AMP.Yet Mr. Gehring also said Google suffered from “tone deafness” when it came to explaining the benefits of AMP, such as the ability for publishers to syndicate articles across the mobile web without losing advertising or traffic.That tone deafness has rubbed some publishers the wrong way. In October, the software developer Alex Kras created a stir when he wrote a post titled “Google May Be Stealing Your Mobile Traffic,” in which he recounted what had happened when he used AMP on his technology blog. After he enabled AMP on his WordPress publishing software, Mr. Kras said, his old posts displayed google.com and there was no easy way to redirect readers to his own site.“It made me feel like my site wasn’t my own,” Mr. Kras said.He later said the title of his blog post was inaccurate, but stood by his concerns that AMP could cost publishers mobile traffic, an assertion Google denies. Mr. Kras said smaller publishers had more to lose if they used AMP, since big publishers have more name recognition and readers are more likely to remember them as the source of a story.“Little guys like myself don’t have this luxury,” he wrote in another blog post after meeting with Google officials.Still, Mr. Kras decided to keep AMP because it was fast. "For that, a lot of little things can be (temporarily) forgotten,” he said.The actor Mark Rylance, the opera singer Bryn Terfel, the Kinks singer Ray Davies, the Vogue editor Anna Wintour and the war photographer Don McCullin are all on this year’s New Year’s Honors 2017, the eagerly awaited list of awards given by the British Cabinet Office to reward service in a variety of professional and charitable fields.The Honors List was first established by King George V in 1917 as a way of recognizing achievement for fields other than those coming from the military, diplomatic corps or the aristocracy. (This year includes awards for “service to Plant and Bee Health” and “For services to Tackling Tax Non-Compliance and Tax Avoidance.”) The awards, which are given twice a year, are formally called the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire, and include Knights and Dames, followed by CBE (Commander of the British Empire), OBE (Officer of the British Empire) and MBE (Member of the British Empire).Mr. Rylance, Mr. Terfel, Mr. Davies and Mr. McCullin all received knighthoods, entitling them to the honorific Sir, while Ms. Wintour and the actress Patricia Routledge received damehoods. Among other arts figures, the theater director Rupert Goold received a CBE, and the Oscar-winning costume designer Jenny Beavan received an OBE, as did the fashion designer Victoria Beckham, the artist Patrick Brill (known as Bob and Roberta Smith) and the actress Naomie Harris. The theater director Richard Eyre and the percussionist Evelyne Glennie, who are already a knight and dame, were made Companions of Honor, a special award for service of national importance.Sportsmen and women weren’t neglected: The tennis player Andy Murray and the distance runner Mo Farah were awarded knighthoods and Jessica Ennis-Hill, the 2012 Olympic Heptathlon champion, was awarded a damehood.Google may be starting to acknowledge some publishers’ concerns. Last month, Google told Search Engine Land that it planned to make changes to AMP in 2017 to make it easier for publishers to offer their own links and for readers to be redirected to their sites. Google did not elaborate on its plans.Several bigger publishers say they are pleased with AMP and do not see anything worrisome with Google.“Google has been a good partner,” said Mark Silverstein, the head of business development at The Huffington Post, which is planning to push almost all of its news content into AMP. “When they make decisions, they do a good job of explaining why they reached that decision.”Emily Smith, head of content operations at Condé Nast’s Wired magazine, said supporting AMP had pushed its mobile articles to the top of search results. For web surfers conditioned to believe that the most relevant information is presented first in search results, it’s important for a media organization to be near the top.“It’s like being above the fold in a newspaper,” she said.About 15 percent of The Washington Post’s traffic comes from AMP pages. The Post is now using the lessons from AMP to move its articles to a separate, faster-running mobile platform that runs like an app but does so over the web.Joey Marburger, director of products for The Post, said that its readers were scrolling further on AMP stories, but that it was building its own fast system to gain greater control over ads and features.“We have to be where our readers are coming from,” Mr. Marburger said. “But it’s also important to have more control over our own content.”The United States Treasury’s schedule of financing this week includes an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday. The three- and six-month bill auctions have also been rescheduled for Tuesday.At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.50 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.62 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.42 percent.The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues, valued at $50 million or more, are scheduled for pricing this week:THURSDAYCherry Creek School District No. 5, Colo., $150 million of unlimited tax general obligation bonds. Competitive.ONE DAY DURING THE WEEKArizona Industrial Development Authority, $108.2 million of education revenue bonds. RBC Capital Markets.District of Columbia University, $311.5 million of revenue refinancing bonds. Wells Fargo Securities.El Paso Independent School District, $184.1 million of unlimited tax school building bonds. Piper Jaffray.Gilroy Unified School District, Calif., $69.5 million of debt securities. Raymond James.King and Pierce Counties, Auburn School District No. 408, Wash., $91.1 million of unlimited tax general obligation bonds. D. A. Davidson & Co.Maine Municipal Bond Bank, $98.1 million of bonds. Wells Fargo Securities.Monroe County School District, Fla., $64.2 million of sales tax revenue bonds. Raymond James.Mount Clemens Community Schools, Mich., $59 million of refinancing bonds. Stifel, Nicolaus & Company.New York Housing Finance Agency, $120 million of affordable housing revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.Texas State University System Board of Regents, $570.8 million of revenue financing, system revenue and refinancing bonds. Barclays Capital.University of North Texas System Board of Regents, $165 million of revenue financing and improvement bonds. Barclays Capital.University of North Texas System Board of Regents, $214.9 million of revenue financing, system refinancing and improvement bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.University of Pittsburgh, $525 million of taxable university refinancing bonds. Wells Fargo Securities.Yselta Independent School District, Tex., $171.4 million of unlimited tax general obligation school building bonds. Piper Jaffray.During a recent interview, the German soprano Diana Damrau and the Italian tenor Vittorio Grigolo tried to describe the chemistry they have together onstage. Reading their comments, I worried that they might be overthinking things. After all, they first worked together only last year, appearing as the lovers in Massenet’s “Manon” at the Metropolitan Opera. The couple thrilled audiences and critics with the smoldering intensity they emitted. So this is a new relationship. In talking about their instinctive connection might they risk making it self-conscious?Not to fear. On Saturday night for its New Year’s Eve gala, the Met introduced a new production of Gounod’s “Roméo et Juliette” starring Mr. Grigolo and Ms. Damrau as Shakespeare’s star-crossed adolescent lovers. In scene after scene, these exciting and charismatic artists disappeared into their characters, emboldening each other to sing with white-hot sensuality and impassioned lyricism.The production, by the director Bartlett Sher, his seventh for the Met, updates the setting from Renaissance to 18th-century Verona, presenting an essentially traditional staging with some surreal touches that seem a little forced. Still, to whatever degree Mr. Sher shaped the courageous performances of his stars, and this very strong cast, he deserves much credit.Chemistry between two performers depends on each one bringing exceptional talents to the mix. Mr. Grigolo, with his heartthrob looks and explosive temperament, makes an ideal Roméo. During intense outbursts, his virile voice had burnished power and ping. Yet in moments when Roméo feels transported by his sudden love for this winsome girl, as in the aria he performs beneath Juliette’s bedroom window, Mr. Grigolo sang subdued romantic phrases with dark colorings and an emotional vulnerability that seemed to knock this impulsive Roméo off guard. That Mr. Grigolo could also climb up the wall to Juliette’s balcony with such effortless athleticism jolted the character with teenage energy.Ms. Damrau showed impressive range in her solo turns. At one point during the Capulet ball in Act I, after Juliette is introduced to Pâris, the young count her father wishes her to wed, she sings the light, waltzing “Je veux vivre” to a group of ogling young courtiers, explaining that she is too young and full of life to settle down. Ms. Damrau dispatched the aria with rosy sound, agile coloratura and girlish glee. But in Act IV, when the good-intentioned friar gives Juliette a potion that will make her appear dead to her family until Roméo can rescue her, Ms. Damrau summoned weighty vocal power and tragic intensity as she agonized over what to do, then forced herself to drink.Ms. Damrau and Mr. Grigolo were especially inspired during the four duets that form the dramatic crux of Gounod’s opera. During the balcony scene duet (“O nuit divine”), they shifted subtly between passages of tremulous romantic abandon and affecting melodic intimacy.Though this is Gounod’s finest opera, a more sophisticated score than “Faust,” the music can still seem a little precious and cloying, even during the crucial love duet on the couple’s only night of wedded bliss. But Ms. Damrau and Mr. Grigolo infused it with a winning combination of emotional nakedness and vocal refinement that brought out the subtleties and depths of the music. Their efforts were aided all night by the nuanced, richly textured and vibrant conducting of the always impressive Gianandrea Noseda.Mr. Sher must have been a little emotionally torn on this occasion. The same day his “Roméo et Juliette” opened at the Met, his revelatory production of “Fiddler on the Roof” had its final performance on Broadway.The “Roméo,” a production of La Scala in Milan, was initially presented at the Salzburg Festival in 2008. It’s not Mr. Sher’s best work. The stage is dominated by a single set (designed by Michael Yeargan) to suggest the imposing, three-tiered outer walls of a Veronese palazzo. During the prologue, after the teeming orchestra depicts the longstanding animosities between the Capulet and Montague families, an assembled throng (the great Met choristers) sings the grave chorus summarizing the tragedy about to occur. Mr. Sher opts for the obvious: The choristers sit and stand with faces forward, stern and motionless, as they intone the music.From then on, slightly abstract, sometimes surreal touches are added to this realistic backdrop. The Capulets’ masked ball becomes a madcap affair. Attendees appear in costumes (by Catherine Zuber) with garish colors and extravagant headpieces. An enormous white sheet serves as an all-purpose symbol, first unfurled as a canopy over a crowd scene, then turned into a covering atop a platform to suggest the bed the secretly married lovers share, then becoming the suffocating bridal veil Juliette must wear to her forced marriage with Pâris, which never takes place.The minimal use of props allows for fluid scene changes, and the symbolic white sheet creates some dramatic stage images. Still, it might have been better to push the concept more toward the abstract. Those looming walls in the background dominate everything. And the set winds up looking like something old fashioned, both monumental and a little dusty.The crowd scenes are inventively handled, however, especially the street brawl in front when Tybalt (Diego Silva, an appealing young tenor in his Met debut) gets into a sword fight with Roméo’s hotheaded friend Mercutio (the dynamic baritone Elliot Madore), and Roméo intervenes. The encounters were executed with Errol Flynn flair, thanks to the work of the fight director B. H. Barry.The acting of the entire cast complemented the consistently strong singing. The bass-baritone Laurent Naouri combined sure French style with an appropriate touch of stuffiness as Capulet, a family head mired in pointless grudges against the Montague clan. The formidable bass Mikhail Petrenko conveyed the hearty good will of Frère Laurent, the friar who also subscribes to dangerous potions. The mezzo-soprano Virginie Verrez brought youthful sass and a bright voice to the male role of Stéphano, Roméo’s page, who is like a sidekick. Diana Montague as Gertrude, the nurse to Juliette, and David Crawford as Pâris were other standouts.But the evening belonged to Ms. Damrau and Mr. Grigolo, who during the long ovation at the end joined their strong voices to shout out “Happy New Year” to the audience. They remain in the cast only through this month.What lies ahead for them at the Met? I’m sure Peter Gelb is already on the case.It was going to happen to someone, and it did. Nearly everything that could go wrong in a live, public, broadcast television appearance went wrong for Mariah Carey in her three-song, just-before-midnight performance on ABC’s “Dick Clark’s New Year’s Rockin’ Eve With Ryan Seacrest” in Times Square. At first it was pretty standard fare: She posed, framed by feathers, as a glittering pop princess through a pristine, apparently lip-synced “Auld Lang Syne.”But then “Emotions” started and, she said as the music played, her monitors weren’t working. (Robert Goldstein of Maryland Sound International, the longtime audio company for Times Square on New Year’s Eve, disputed her complaints: “There were zero technical malfunctions,” he wrote in an email to The New York Times. “Every monitor and in-ear device worked perfectly.”) Beyond a handful of phrases, Ms. Carey didn’t attempt to sing her lead vocals. Meanwhile, both speaking and singing, her voice was considerably lower, huskier and scratchier than it had been during “Auld Lang Syne.”“I’m trying to be a good sport here,” she said as the backing track to “Emotions” played on. “Let the audience sing,” she urged, and she cued one of her dancers to grab her in a lift. She kept on smiling and strutting in her high heels; she held her microphone toward the crowd. When the song ended, she declared, “That was” — she paused to choose a valid but positive adjective — “amazing.”Then, with a skirt added to her outfit, and still smiling, she performed her 2005 hit “We Belong Together,” at times holding the microphone far from her mouth or calling out “Happy New Year!” as the impeccable lead vocals continued: more proof of lip-syncing. “It just don’t get any better,” she quipped, husky-voiced again. And the segment was over.“No matter what Mariah does, the crowd absolutely loves it,” Mr. Seacrest followed up.Ah, yes and no. A typhoon of mockery immediately gusted across the internet. There’s no softer, easier, more joyfully attacked target than a pop diva past her prime — particularly one who, like Ms. Carey, has already been through so many public ups and downs. It’s not that she hasn’t courted maximum attention, both adoring and hostile; she is, after all, starring in an E! Network reality show, “Mariah’s World.” And she has faltered in other high-profile performances; New Year’s Eve was far from the first time she has faced ridicule.But what could be more thankless, at this point, than that live New Year’s Eve gig? Why would anyone chance it? It’s cold in Times Square; it’s loud and crowded. It’s an outdoor stage in the middle of a city; it’s one segment of a long show, not a concert production controlled by the star. And it’s full of unavoidable high-definition close-ups, although the cameras did mercifully pull back and turn away through some of Ms. Carey’s travails.Beyond that, expectations for performance on TV have been raised to impossible levels by music videos, with their faked, idealized live performances fronting the technical perfection of studio recordings. Far too many musicians now play it too safe, attempting to appear superhuman by bolstering live sets with canned material, trying to approximate their own video clips. Yet even the most well-rehearsed live shows are bound to have moments that are out of tune, mistimed or just plain mistaken: human, one-time moments that can make a performance memorable. Those slip-ups used to be ephemeral, something that could be laughed off afterward. Now they live on forever in the perpetual online blooper reel that YouTube can become.On her best nights, a performer like Ms. Carey, whose voice has dropped and coarsened since her first hits in 1990, is not going to match her stratospheric early hits. Her more recent songs, wisely, place themselves where her voice is comfortable now, hoping to make up in grit and experience what they lack in sheer vocal acrobatics. Those adjustments are necessary to maintain as long a pop career as Ms. Carey’s. One of her major problems on tour has been that some of her most beloved songs, the hits her audience wants most, demand a voice she has outlived. She’s simply not as flexible as she was in 1991, when she released “Emotions”; then again, her online trolls probably aren’t either.So the truly startling thing about Ms. Carey’s New Year’s Eve fiasco is that she planned to perform “Emotions” at all. The canned music already included the song’s near-dog-whistle vocal flourish, which Ms. Carey no longer pretends to be able to deliver. But what the world heard from Times Square was a backing track awaiting a lead vocal — presumably a live one.Ms. Carey could have smiled her way through another lip-sync, hitting her marks with her dancers, and it would have been one more forgettable television performance. There would have been a little ripple of complaints that she was lip-syncing, followed by the collective shrug that lip-syncing is now business as usual. Instead, bravely, Ms. Carey was set up to sing that strenuous song live, outdoors, in 45-degree weather. Then, for whatever reasons, she backed out and set off the first pop feeding frenzy of the year. Technical problems, temperament, nerves — or could it be some perverse genius calculation? One of a celebrity’s main jobs is to draw attention, and this was a spectacle that drew comment worldwide — a grand diva moment that was noticed, and will be remembered, the way a perfect performance never would.WASHINGTON — In the shadow of the house where Frederick Douglass spent his final 17 years, and just across the snaking Anacostia River from the trendy Washington Navy Yard neighborhood, are the Valley Place Family Apartments, a transitional housing complex for some of the most vulnerable residents of the nation’s capital.This is where two mothers, Anita White and Jasmine Kelly, awake at dawn each day to make a life for their families.Ms. White, 27, and Ms. Kelly, 25, live in what amounts to a parallel universe in Southeast Washington, as the city and its suburbs accumulate staggering wealth while its poorest residents grow poorer. In December, a devastating survey of 32 big cities prepared by the United States Conference of Mayors showed Washington with the highest rate of homelessness. There are 124 homeless people for every 10,000 residents here, more than twice the national average. Nationally, homelessness has shrunk 12.9 percent over the last seven years.The survey numbers were taken from the annual “Point in Time” count distributed by the Community Partnership for the Prevention of Homelessness, a nonprofit that works with the local government. As of last January, according to the count, 8,350 people experienced homelessness: 318 on the street, 6,259 in emergency shelters and 1,773 in transitional housing. Outside of the homeless numbers, 17.3 percent of residents in the District of Columbia live in poverty, according to recent census data.Those who research and confront the homeless crisis — members of the Conference of Mayors, District of Columbia officials, legal advocates, shelter providers and homeless parents — all point to one thing: the cost of urban living. Median home prices in Washington soared to record highs last year.“There are no ‘new homeless,’” said Michael Ferrell, the executive director of the Coalition for the Homeless, which runs 10 shelter programs in Washington, including Valley Place. “The one single thing that really has changed is the lack of affordable housing.”“The housing that’s being created today in the District is not for working-class people,” he said.The problems for Ms. White and Ms. Kelly, who have been at Valley Place for over a year, look familiar to many here.Ms. White is a student in mortuary science at the University of the District of Columbia during weekdays and a sales associate at the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts on the weekends. She has been homeless twice. Just a few years ago, she appeared to be recuperating, living in her own apartment while she worked as an assistant manager at a clothing retailer. She ended up in Valley Place with her 5-year-old daughter and 9-year-old son when she could not afford her rent.Before Valley Place, Ms. Kelly, who has four young boys, spent time in what she called the “torturous” D.C. General Family Shelter: the city’s largest homeless facility, which houses hundreds of families. The mayor and City Council want to close the complex and replace it with more intimate shelters spread out across Washington. The city spends around $80,000 every night on hotel rooms for homeless families.“People underestimate the degree to which housing is out of reach for certain people,” said Laura Zeilinger, the director of the Department of Human Services in Washington. She said her department had a commitment to make sure that families were safe and able to survive custody battles and violent homes, and that they were not “living in gas stations or McDonald’s or laundromats while we try to fix the system.”In such a desirable real estate market, landlords are circumspect, taking government subsidies for affordable housing before screening out potential tenants for qualities associated with homelessness, Ms. Zeilinger said.Often the last line of defense for those facing this kind of discrimination is the Washington Legal Clinic for the Homeless, where for 25 years Patty Mullahy Fugere has supervised a staff of lawyers who offer legal counsel on shelter and emergency resources to the homeless.“There’s a bit of a double standard with the city that we’ve seen: We improve our schools, our roads. We put in bike lanes and dock parks and spent a lot of public money trying to attract outsiders,” she said. “It’s low-income residents who are drawn into the District who want to relocate here because there’s a stronger safety net to help them get back on their feet. Then for whatever reason, those folks seem to be demonized.”“There’s enough of the renaissance for everyone,” Ms. Mullahy Fugere said.Since her election in 2014, Mayor Muriel Bowser has made homelessness a higher priority than her more stringent predecessor did, extending the availability of shelters beyond the cold-weather months, when there is a threat of hypothermia. The survey pointed out that the Bowser administration had done especially well sheltering homeless children and veterans. In 2016, the city had the lowest percentage of unsheltered homeless among the study’s cities.Adjacent to the suffering is prodigious wealth. Census data released in December showed four of Washington’s neighboring communities as the richest in the nation — Loudoun County, Falls Church, and Fairfax and Howard Counties — while the District of Columbia maintained a median household income of over $70,000.The “Point in Time” numbers also exposed a generational calamity. The average age of adults in homeless families is 27 — a demographic that includes Ms. White and Ms. Kelly — half the average age of unaccompanied homeless people.Young, homeless parents are faced with squaring their work and family lives in the most dire circumstances.Ms. Kelly recently received a Special Police Officer license that allows her to work as a security guard. But the job offers she has received, so far, are for overnight shifts, leaving no one to care for her children at night or early in the morning.“I want to be able to go out and be my own self, but I really don’t have a choice,” she said.The hurdles for Ms. White are just as high. The twin opportunities she must capitalize on — the steady job on the weekends and classes on weekdays — deny her the time or income to compete for housing.“I’m trying to do homework and at the same time make spaghetti,” she said.A report in early December from the D.C. Fiscal Policy Institute, an organization that researches budgets and taxes that affect needy residents in the city, revealed that with rising rent, the poorest Washington residents faced spending more than half their income on housing. Recent census data shows median rents in Washington over $1,300, yet only a third of what the institute calls 26,000 “extremely low-income” households can afford rent above $200 per month. Only 9 percent of this group actually has housing at that rate.This feeds the grim cycle Ms. White and Ms. Kelly know well: the abbreviated stays in shelters, the faint hope of independent housing, the evictions, the return to beds they do not own and have little interest in occupying.“Young mothers have to wait for a child care slot anywhere from a month to a year,” said Nicole Baptiste, who has overseen Valley Place for almost nine years as program director. “Then they have to get a voucher. Before they get a voucher, they have to prove that they’re working. But they’re trying to get a slot so they can put a child in day care so they can find a job.”This series of irreconcilable tasks means shelters across the city get used to familiar faces.“They might not be back in my shelter, but they’ll be back in some other shelter,” Ms. Baptiste said with resignation.Ms. White shares that bleak view while she considers leaving Valley Place and her hometown.“I hate having to come to this building. That’s one of the hardest things, just waking up and being here,” she said. “I don’t know where I’m going to go, but I want to leave D.C.”Writers are different from the rest of us. Their castoff scraps can be worth money, not to mention the obsessive attentions of future scholars.Jonathan Lethem, 52, recently became the latest author to sell his personal paper trail to a major archive. The Beinecke Rare Book & Manuscript Library at Yale University acquired a trove of his manuscripts, letters, notes and other artifacts, which will now sit alongside material from Walt Whitman, Sinclair Lewis, James Baldwin and Marilynne Robinson in its rich American literature collection.Mr. Lethem’s papers contain items relating to the novels that made him something of a reluctant patron saint of Brooklyn’s literary ascendance, including “Motherless Brooklyn” (1999) and “The Fortress of Solitude” (2003). But as befits a lifelong collector, music obsessive, comics geek and dedicated chronicler of underground culture, there are also hand-drawn cartoons, New York 1970s ephemera and what is surely the largest cache of drawings of vomiting cats in any university collection.“For an author who is so much fun as a novelist, it’s interesting to see there is so much fun in his archival documents as well,” said Melissa Barton, the curator of American prose and drama at the Beinecke. (Ms. Barton, citing library policy, declined to say what Yale paid in the sale, which was arranged by the Manhattan book dealer Glenn Horowitz.)Mr. Lethem’s archive also includes two computer hard drives, a laptop and other digital materials, especially from more recent years. “You can feel the evaporation of the physical ephemera,” Mr. Lethem, whose most recent novel, “A Gambler’s Anatomy,” appeared in October, said in an interview.But the bulk of the collection consists of dead-tree artifacts, some of them charmingly weird. We asked Mr. Lethem, who left New York in 2010 to teach creative writing at Pomona College in Claremont, Calif., about some of the odder items in his literary closet.Capeless CrusaderThe archive includes a number of hand-drawn comic books Mr. Lethem made as a child, featuring invented superheroes like Fig-Leaf Man, whose origin story included an ill-fated attempt to start a nudist colony in Alaska. In one installment, Fig-Leaf Man (who later got a passing shout-out in “The Fortress of Solitude”) battled Ed Koch, who was no hero to Mr. Lethem’s left-wing bohemian parents. “I didn’t make multiple copies to sell or anything,” he said. “It was more like I was collecting my own weird artifacts from a pretend universe where Fig-Leaf Man was a real comic.”Brooklyn DaysMr. Lethem swiped this sticker after stumbling on a shoot for the 1979 movie “The Warriors” in the Hoyt-Schermerhorn subway station in Brooklyn, which was standing in for the Times Square station. “This was my subway stop, and the fact that they were turning it into 42nd Street seemed absurd,” Mr. Lethem recalled. “I remember thinking that no one would see or hear about this movie. Nothing that anyone was shooting in my neighborhood could possibly be important.”What Could Have BeenThe archive contains typescripts of his novels, often affixed with alternate titles. (Would “Motherless Brooklyn” have been a hit if it had been called “Jerks From Nowhere”?) The earliest is “Apes in the Plan,” an unpublished “fake Philip K. Dick novel,” as Mr. Lethem put it, named for a Devo lyric and written between ages 18 and 23. “I wrote three novels on an electric typewriter,” he said. “If I live long enough, I could end up being one of the last living humans who can say that.”‘Externalizing My Superego’This diary tracking his writing progress, social interactions, exercise and, um, digestion comes from the mid-1980s, when Mr. Lethem had dropped out of Bennington College and moved to Berkeley, Calif., to try to become a writer. “I had thrust myself into a kind of vacuum,” he said. “I had no visible means of support, nor was anyone expecting to hear from me. This kind of weird self-monitoring probably had to do with externalizing my superego and answering the question ‘Who are you and what did you actually do today?’”Vomiting CatsAbout those drawings of vomiting cats … “For about 15 years, every time I had a really good dance party that went late, with people lolling around drunk and exhausted, at about 2 a.m., I would hand out paper and ask everyone to draw a vomiting cat,” Mr. Lethem said. “I ended up with an incredibly thick file of drawings, some by people who went on to be published cartoonists and writers.”Dramatis PersonaeSome of the goofy character names in Mr. Lethem’s novels are drawn from free-associated lists he typed up early in his career, a habit he connects with the wordplay of “Motherless Brooklyn,” whose narrator has Tourette’s syndrome. Mr. Lethem recalled a moment of recognition sparked by an Oliver Sacks essay about a surgeon with Tourette’s who kept a list of more than 200 unusual names as “candy for the mind.” “He was collecting real names,” Mr. Lethem said. “But when I read that, I thought, ‘Oh my God, that’s me.’” Names from this list showed up in “Gun, With Occasional Music” (1994) and “Chronic City” (2009).Underberg’s Ephemera“The Fortress of Solitude,” inspired by Mr. Lethem’s Brooklyn childhood, describes a grocery-supply store called Samuel J. Underberg, “a site of mysterious life,” where graffiti artists came to buy ink that was specially formulated for stamping prices on slimy packages of meat and therefore ideal for tagging. While writing, Mr. Lethem acquired some random items from the real Underberg’s (now demolished), which are shown here with a 1978 Billboard Hot 100 list, an old calendar and other research materials. “I became a collector of all this tawdry used signage,” he said. “I just thought it was really weird and cool.”Selected LettersThe archive contains dozens of letters from fellow writers and artists, including Donna Tartt, Paul Auster, Suzanne Vega, Jennifer Egan, Thomas Berger and Ursula K. Le Guin. This missive, written on an airline safety card, is from the novelist David Bowman, who died of a cerebral hemorrhage in 2012. “All his letters were like mail art,” Mr. Lethem said. “David had a great, crazy brain. He never stopped covering the world in language.”John Berger, the British critic, novelist and screenwriter whose groundbreaking 1972 television series and book, “Ways of Seeing,” declared war on traditional ways of thinking about art and influenced a generation of artists and teachers, died on Monday at his home in the Paris suburb of Antony. He was 90.Simon McBurney, the British actor and a friend of Mr. Berger’s, confirmed his death to The Associated Press.As the host of “Ways of Seeing,” with his shaggy hair and tieless, loud-patterned shirt, Mr. Berger was a public intellectual who became a countercultural celebrity in 1970s Britain, where the BBC kept the four-part series in frequent rotation. The book became an art-school standard on both sides of the Atlantic.He set the insurrectionary tone in the show’s opening sequence, taking a box cutter to a mock-up of Botticelli’s “Venus and Mars” and slicing out the portrait of Venus.Mr. Berger’s intention was to upend what he saw as centuries of elitist critical tradition that evaluated artworks mostly formally, ignoring their social and political context, and the series came to be seen as an assault on the historian Kenneth Clark’s lofty “Civilisation,” the landmark 1969 BBC series about the glories of Western art.Among many other subjects, Mr. Berger burrowed into the sexism underpinning the tradition of the nude; the place of high art in an image-saturated modern world; the relationship between art and advertising; and, of particular importance to him as a voice of the British New Left, the way traditional oil painting celebrated wealth and materialism.“Oil painting did to appearances what capital did to social relations,” he wrote. “It reduced everything to the equality of objects. Everything became exchangeable because everything became a commodity.”In academic circles the book became, as one art historian described it, the equivalent of Mao’s Little Red Book, and it went on to sell more than a million copies, never going out of print. Mr. Berger’s methods, influenced by the ideas of Walter Benjamin, tended to attract either ardent admiration or seething criticism, with little in between.Susan Sontag once wrote that “in contemporary English letters he seems to me peerless.” Stephen Spender, on the other hand, called him “a foghorn in a fog” (a condemnation that Mr. Berger wryly spun into a compliment, asking what could be more useful in a fog). The critic Hilton Kramer complained that his brand of Marxism was not about real political problems but about provoking “social guilt among the comfortable, cultivated consumers of high culture.”John Peter Berger was born in London on Nov. 5, 1926, and raised in only moderate comfort, with little high culture, in what he described as a working-class home.His father, Stanley, a minor public official, and his mother, Miriam, managed to send him to private school, but he hated it and spent most of his time writing poetry and reading an anarchist weekly newspaper. He ran away from school at 16 and began studying art, continuing at Chelsea School of Art, now Chelsea College of Arts, after a stint in the Army.Mr. Berger (pronounced BER-jer) wanted to be a painter but found that he was much better at writing. For a decade he was an art critic for The New Statesman, where he made a name for himself by antagonizing nearly everyone in the art world in prose that was beautifully spare and precise but heavily moralizing and also frequently humorless.He was a champion of realism during the rise of Abstract Expressionism, and he took on giants like Jackson Pollock, whom he criticized as a talented failure for being unable to “see or think beyond the decadence of the culture to which he belongs.”But his love for favorite artists — among them Rembrandt, Velázquez, van Gogh and Frida Kahlo — was expressed with a fervor and depth of intelligence matched by few critics of his generation.The year 1972 was Mr. Berger’s most prolific, with “Ways of Seeing” and the publication of his most critically acclaimed novel, “G.,” about the political awakening of a Lothario in pre-World War I Europe, which was awarded the Booker Prize. (Characteristically, Mr. Berger criticized the company that sponsored the prize, saying that it exploited Caribbean workers, and announced that he would split his winnings with the Black Panthers.)In 1974, when his critical influence was probably at its height in Britain, he left London for Paris and then Geneva. He later decided to leave cities altogether, moving to a remote peasant community, Quincy, in the French Alps, where he lived with his wife, Beverly Bancroft, who died in 2013, and their son, Yves. (Besides his son, he is survived by another son, Jacob, and a daughter, Katya, from a previous marriage.)In the Alps, where he learned to raise cattle, he wrote a trilogy of unconventional books called “Into Their Labors” — comminglings of short story, poetry and essay — examining the migration of peasants away from their traditions and into cities.He also successfully dabbled in screenwriting, collaborating with the director Alain Tanner on three films, including the critically praised “Jonah Who Will Be 25 in the Year 2000” (1976) about a group of radical idealists trying to stay true to their principles. His novel “From A to X” was longlisted for the Booker Prize in 2008, and in 2016, Mr. Berger was the subject of an anthology documentary, “The Seasons in Quincy: Four Portraits of John Berger,” directed in part by the actress Tilda Swinton, a friend.Despite his many forays into hard-to-classify forms of writing, he returned again and again to the essay, the bedrock of his reputation, whose underlying theme was almost always the impossibility of disentangling the aesthetic from the moral: A 1992 piece described the annual task of mucking the pit beneath his outhouse, an odious job but one that offered many of the same lessons that great art had taught him.“Nothing in the nature around us is evil,” he wrote. “This needs to be repeated since one of the human ways of talking oneself into inhuman acts is to cite the supposed cruelty of nature.”“The just-hatched cuckoo, still blind and featherless, has a special hollow like a dimple on its back,” he continued, “so that it can hump out of the nest, one by one, its companion fledglings.”OTTAWA — It was 7 a.m., and 99 passengers and six crew members were aboard a 737 on the tarmac at Calgary International Airport, bound for a sunny holiday in Cancun, Mexico. There was one problem, however. The flight’s captain was passed out in the cockpit, apparently from drinking.The police in Calgary, Alberta, arrested the pilot, Miroslav Gronych, 37, on Saturday and have charged him with two alcohol-related offenses.“This is a new one, and obviously this had a very significant potential to cause great harm had the pilot actually been allowed to fly this plane,” Staff Sgt. Paul Stacey of the Calgary Police Service said at a news conference. “There’s just so many checks and balances, it just doesn’t surprise me that he got caught before this plane was able to leave the gate.”Nevertheless, Inspector Ken Thrower, the commander of the Calgary Police Service’s traffic and airport unit, said his officers, along with airport officials and inspectors from Transport Canada, the aviation regulator, will begin trying to figure out how the pilot managed to pass through several checkpoints, including airport security, while obviously inebriated.Mr. Gronych was charged with two criminal offenses: having care and control of an aircraft while impaired, and having care and control of an aircraft while testing for more than 80 milligrams of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood.“He was pretty high,” Sergeant Stacey said, adding that it was inconceivable that the pilot had followed Transport Canada regulations that bar drinking or drug use by pilots within eight hours of a flight.The aircraft was operated by Sunwing Airlines, a low-cost carrier based in Toronto.Sunwing’s gate agents found the pilot’s behavior to be unusual and alerted the co-pilot. The co-pilot then discovered the pilot slumped in the captain’s seat and “severely impaired by alcohol,” Sergeant Stacey said.Transport Canada, which did not respond to requests for comment, is conducting a separate investigation, which is likely to result in additional charges, the police said.Inspector Thrower said Mr. Gronych is from Slovenia and is in Canada on a work visa. He will appear in court again on Thursday.After some delay, the flight did take off with a new crew. Sunwing did not respond to requests for comment. Janine Massey, a spokeswoman, told The Associated Press that the carrier was “very apologetic for any upset that this has caused and would like to assure our customers that safety remains our utmost priority.”