For engraver Jennifer Bower, the muse is never far away. When seeking inspiration, she simply picks up a sketchbook and observes the northern Michigan landscape outside her studio.Ms. Bower has always enjoyed drawing, lettering and calligraphy—practices that all play a role in her engraving. Working with her hands also is second nature. As a child, “I was always making little gadgets and really into art, all the facets of being busy and doing things,” she says.Now 36 years old, she grew up in a family where office work was the norm, and attended college intending to become a teacher. When she started dating Nathan Bower, a clock maker who is now her husband, she admits with a laugh, “I asked him: ‘So, you make clocks and earn a living at it?’ ”She put teaching on the back burner and helped her husband run his clock business. Her “aha moment” as a craftsman didn’t happen until a chance meeting eight years ago with an engraver of rifles and knives. The engraver didn’t tutor her directly but after some trial and error, she cut her preliminary lines and circles at his bench. “He suggested I keep repeating those on my own and eventually branch out into other designs once I had consistently round circles and consistently straight lines,” she says. Her early efforts “looked so bad,” she says. “It was hard and frustrating to me because I [really] wanted to do it.”Engraving is a painstaking process. To begin, Ms. Bower draws preliminary designs in a sketchbook with a pencil. When happy with the initial sketch, she transfers the design to metal, often with a fine-point marker. At her workbench, she uses a microscope while cutting and removing tiny bits of metal with a sharp blade called a graver. The metal comes off in small curls, leaving behind shiny, engraved lines. Attention to detail is crucial because the cuts aren’t erasable.Four years ago, Ms. Bower and her husband built a 3,000-square-foot facility to house their workshops and a gallery where they sell their creations. Her 600-square-foot loft overlooks several wooded acres. She pays particular attention to patterns on leaves when coming up with her engraving designs.One cherished heirloom in her studio is a mahogany desk that her grandfather fashioned in the 1950s. “It’s one of the few pieces of family history I have,” she says. “To think my grandfather was interested in making things by hand, it’s inspirational for me to have it in my workspace.”Ms. Bower surrounds herself with childhood toys and collectibles, especially “Star Wars” memorabilia. Her desk hosts an ever-expanding array of pens, pencils and markers. Writing instruments “are an addiction,” she says. “Every time I go to the store, I go home with one.”She has worked on jewelry and wedding keepsakes, such as pendants, bracelets and charms. Clients have asked Ms. Bower to engrave charms with words, sometimes in their own handwriting. “There was a couple who once accidentally said ‘Lerb Yerb’ instead of ‘Love You.’ It became their own little phrase and I engraved it onto a charm for them,” she says. She also has engraved less-predictable items, including antique tools. One memorable commission: A maker of wooden duck calls asked her to engrave bands that he affixed to the devices. Her Instagram audience has grown to more than 24,000 followers, after she uploaded a short video of herself engraving a tape measure.Recently Ms. Bower has taken up wood turning, which involves shaping wood with a lathe. Her husband bought her a small lathe and showed her how to hold the tools and sharpen them. Ms. Bower is applying the same self-taught method that is largely how she approaches engraving. Soon, she aims to tackle blacksmithing. “In the last handful of years, I came to realize that it’s OK to try things and fail,” she says. “You’ll never know if you like it or if you’ll be good at it unless you try.”Cable giant Comcast Corp. CMCSA -7.15% has reached an agreement to continue carriage of Fox News Channel, the two companies said, averting a blackout that would have left millions of viewers without access to the popular network.As part of the deal, Comcast and Fox News-parent 21st Century Fox have also come to terms on a new distribution agreement for Fox’s YES regional sports network, which is home to the New York Yankees. Comcast stopped carrying YES in late 2015 because of a contract dispute.Keeping Fox News is important for Comcast, one of the nation’s largest pay-TV distributors with over 20 million subscribers. The news network is coming off its best year ever in terms of ratings and has a loyal audience.To be sure, interest in election coverage lifted ratings for all cable news channels, but Fox News managed to outpace popular sports and entertainment networks as well including Walt Disney Co. ’s ESPN. It ended 2016 as the most-watched cable network in prime time with an average audience of 2.4 million viewers and 1.4 million daily, according to Nielsen.Since the election, Fox News is still up 30% in prime time compared with the same period a year ago while Time Warner Inc.’s CNN is down 25%. Comcast’s MSNBC also is up although its audience is much smaller.The current Fox News deal was set to expire at midnight Dec. 31. A prolonged programming blackout on Comcast systems would have held risks for Fox News as well, putting a big dent in its ratings and lowering its subscription revenue.21st Century Fox and Wall Street Journal-parent News Corp share common ownership.Terms of the roughly four-year pact weren’t disclosed, but people familiar with the matter said Comcast’s monthly carriage fee for Fox News will exceed $1.50 per-subscriber initially, with annual increases. According to consulting firm SNL Kagan, Fox News trails only ESPN, TNT and Disney Channel in subscription fees.Fox Business Network, a sister channel of Fox News, isn’t part of this agreement as its contract with Comcast hasn’t expired yet.The deal is the first major pact for Fox News since the departure of Roger Ailes as chairman and chief executive and the network last July after he was accused of sexual harassment, a charge he has denied.Since Mr. Ailes’s exit, 21st Century Fox has moved to take greater oversight of Fox News, which had operated with a large amount of autonomy. Tim Carry, the longtime head of distribution for Fox News, resigned in November and his responsibilities were assumed by Michael Biard, who handles distribution for the rest of the company’s television networks.Besides Fox News and YES, the deal covers 12 other Fox-owned regional sports channels.Comcast distributes YES primarily in New Jersey. One of the most popular regional sports networks, YES costs an average of $5.36 per-month, per-subscriber, according to SNL Kagan. The channel also telecasts Brooklyn Nets basketball. YES was seeking to reach close to $6 in its next deal with Comcast, according to people familiar with the talks.While the price tag is steep, that wasn’t the primary issue of the dispute, people involved in the matter have said. Instead the rift had to do with contract language involving so-called “most-favored nation” clauses designed to ensure a distributor that a channel won’t strike a better deal with a rival.“We always said that we would continue to evaluate whether there was a way to bring back the YES Network under terms that are consistent with our commitment to providing the best programming at the best possible price,” Comcast said in a statement, adding that the new agreement makes sense for both companies and “most importantly, our customers.”Although there is an accord on YES, it won’t immediately return to Comcast subscribers. The channel will likely not be back until after the baseball season starts in the spring, people with knowledge of the pact said.One 21st Century Fox channel that Comcast is dropping is the Fox College Sports network, which has low ratings.FACING DOWN a relative’s liquor cabinet stocked with a bottle of Smirnoff and little else, I recently renewed my acquaintance with a cocktail I hadn’t sipped since the Clinton administration: the Cape Codder, that invigorating combo of cranberry juice, vodka and lime.There’s no mistaking this one-two punch of a drink for the handiwork of a craft barman. Yet, topped with a tart squeeze of citrus and twinkling pink in the candlelight, it did have a familiar, collegiate charm. I reassured myself that hipsterism has no place in the holiday season and mixed another.A few nights later, as I pawed around my own home bar, I got to thinking. Jewel-like cranberries are one of the winter table’s most reliable pops of color and tartness, and vodka is always a willing blank slate. The combo seemed ripe for reinvention.I thumbed through my stash of vintage cocktail manuals and discovered that the Cape Codder’s family tree is wide-canopied: Permutations of this highball have been called a Bog-Fog, a Harpoon, a Red Devil and a Rangoon Ruby (which adds a squirt of soda and some tiki garnishes to the formula). In the 1990s, when fishbowl-size “Martinis” swung into fashion, the standard components joined forces with triple sec in the Cosmopolitan, the drink that’s lubricated a billion bachelorette parties.I wanted a Cape Codder redux that downplayed the syrupy sweetness of the mixer while playing up its puckery side. After a few flops, inspiration finally arrived. I’d riff on the formula for everyone’s favorite three-ingredient drink, the Negroni. With its ruby hue and bitter edge, cranberry juice bears a striking resemblance to the Italian aperitivo Campari, a key Negroni ingredient. And gin (another) is basically vodka plus botanicals. Why not make a swap??Paired with sweet vermouth and a few dashes of bitters, vodka and cranberry gain a sophisticated, herbal roundness. Think sorority sister on semester abroad—hence the name (see recipe below). Indeed, low in alcohol and pretension, this is one pretty, pink companion you’ll be glad to have by your side through New Year’s and beyond.Semester Abroad? 1 ? ounces vodka? 1 ? ounces cranberry juice? 1 ounce sweet vermouth? 2-3 dashes Angostura bittersJust add these four ingredients to an ice-filled Old Fashioned glass, stir gently and garnish with a lime wedge or twist.How long until Islamic State gets lucky in Asia? ISIS and its followers haven’t hit the region with their worst terrorist horrors, but recent arrests in several countries show this isn’t for lack of trying. Much of Asia is increasingly fertile ground for terrorist recruitment, and ISIS setbacks in Syria and Iraq could bring hardened foreign fighters back to sow terror at home.Days after last week’s ISIS truck attack at a Christmas market in Berlin killed 12, authorities in Australia arrested seven men allegedly planning to plant bombs in central Melbourne over the holidays. This was “one of the most substantial terrorist plots” of recent years, said Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull, with possible targets including a train station and a cathedral featured in a recent ISIS video.Australia hasn’t had a major attack since an ISIS sympathizer took 18 hostages in a Sydney cafe in 2014, two of whom died. But several foiled plots and small attacks, including a stabbing in September, have led to 57 terror-related arrests. Officials estimate that 110 Australians are fighting for ISIS in the Middle East.Indonesia also had a tense Christmas. Police raids to disrupt suspected holiday terror plots led to several shootouts in which five militants were killed and 20 arrested. “Indonesian authorities continue to arrest terrorists who have allegedly been in the advanced stages of attack planning,” Australia’s government said in a recent travel warning. One alleged plot targeted the resort island of Bali, where bombings in 2002 and 2005 killed 220 people.Officials say at least three of those killed this month were tied to Bahrun Naim, a Syria-based Indonesian believed to have coordinated the attack last January in which terrorists with guns and crude bombs killed four people in a Jakarta district popular with foreigners. Several hundred Indonesians are believed to be with ISIS in Syria and Iraq.Malaysia recently arrested seven men allegedly plotting to attack an international school, an entertainment district and an unspecified target in nearby Burma. At least one was apparently coordinating with a Malaysian in Syria. ISIS’s lone success in Malaysia to date was a small grenade attack on a bar near Kuala Lumpur in June, but weeks later authorities arrested 16 suspects for plotting to attack police. Officials in 2014 said they foiled another plot to attack pubs and a Carlsberg brewery.“The threat of a terror attack here is at its highest level in recent times, much more so than after 9/11,” Singapore’s Home Affairs Minister said in March. “It is no longer a question of whether an attack will take place but really when is an attack going to take place.” In August six alleged ISIS loyalists were arrested in Indonesia for plotting a rocket attack, possibly by sea, against Singapore’s upscale Marina Bay district.It’s a relief that ISIS has had difficulty executing attacks in Asia as deadly as those in Europe and the Middle East, but time could be on its side. Islamist political actors are growing more powerful in Indonesia, where they’re poised to depose the Christian governor of Jakarta, and Malaysia, where the ruling party has stoked Islamist grievances to distract from its corruption scandal. Saudi money funds Islamist schools and institutions in both countries.In the restive southern Philippines, where ISIS has deputized an emir for Southeast Asia, the draw of the caliphate has made Muslim insurgent groups more ideological and more willing to cooperate across clan and ethnic lines. It doesn’t help that Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte threatens to evict U.S. counterterror forces. A little farther afield, the persecution of Muslims by state authorities in western China and western Burma is another boon to ISIS recruiters.Defeating ISIS in Asia will require toppling its caliphate in the Middle East and deepening the cooperation exemplified by Indonesia’s counterterror squad, Detachment 88, which works closely with the U.S. and Australia. As important is limiting the oxygen that jihadists draw from Islamist politics and anti-Muslim repression. That’s a project for nearly every government in Asia to take up.On Wall Street, the rising dollar has been one of the most visible signals of growing optimism in the U.S. economy. For many other countries, it spells trouble.Most analysts expect the U.S. currency to strengthen in 2017, extending a gain that has boosted the value of the dollar by more than one-third since the U.S. credit downgrade in 2011.That expectation is mostly because a strengthening economy appears likely to enable the Federal Reserve to enact its plan for multiple rate increases in 2017. Higher rates make it more attractive to hold dollar-denominated assets, attracting money into the U.S.“Right now, there is an incredible amount of pressure to sell just about every type of currency and buy the dollar,” said Christopher Stanton, chief investment officer at Sunrise Capital LP, which manages $700 million.Mr. Stanton recently bet that the U.S. currency will appreciate against the Australian dollar, Japanese yen and euro in the next few months.A stronger dollar raises the buying power of U.S. consumers and businesses by making imported items cheaper and reducing the costs of traveling abroad. By the same token, however, it hurts U.S. exporters by making their goods less competitive overseas, cutting into corporate earnings and potentially weighing on stock prices.In emerging markets, sustained dollar strength could undercut prices for oil and other dollar-denominated commodities, pressuring developing economies that export raw materials. Emerging-market companies and governments that have borrowed heavily in the U.S. currency will also find their debt more difficult to service.For China, the rising dollar is exacerbating capital outflows and tightening liquidity, shaking markets that had enjoyed a period of relative stability for most of 2016. Chinese bond markets plunged in reaction to December’s Fed meeting, at which the U.S. central bank decided to lift rates and signaled several more boosts. Chinese regulators injected money to allay a possible credit squeeze, while stocks also fell.China’s central bank has also had to drain $300 billion of its reserves in the first three quarters of the year, more than it spent in all of 2015, as it fought to slow the yuan’s decline against the dollar. China’s currency is down 4.3% against the dollar since October, falling to a record low. Other emerging-market currencies have been hit far worse: the Turkish lira is off nearly 15% in the last three months of the year.Expectations of fiscal stimulus under President-elect Donald Trump “have absolutely re-energized the dollar,” said Alan Ruskin, head of G10 foreign exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank.  “This is a major shift in policy dynamics.”The Wall Street Journal Dollar Index, which measures the dollar against a basket of 16 currencies, rose 3.1% in 2016 on a late-year surge against the euro, yen and emerging markets.Roughly 60% of clients surveyed by Citigroup believe the dollar will be either “moderately higher” or “sharply higher” against developed and emerging market currencies next year.Some worry, however, Mr. Trump’s proposals on infrastructure spending and tax cuts may not come to fruition. And past fiscal expansions have had mixed effects on the U.S. currency.The ICE Dollar Index rallied more than 80% between 1981 and 1985, driven by a mix of fiscal stimulus pushed through by then-President Ronald Reagan and a series of rate increases by the Federal Reserve in the decade’s early years.But tax cuts under President George W. Bush failed to boost the dollar in the 2000s, as they were accompanied by a dovish Fed and uncertain equity markets, a Deutsche Bank report said.Investors also expect the Fed to keep a close eye on the currency’s ascent, and raise rates at a slower pace if the dollar’s rally appears to be bruising the U.S. economy.Thanos Bardas, a portfolio manager at Neuberger Berman overseeing $255 billion, said he took profits in December on bets that the dollar will rise against the yen, wary that the U.S. currency has risen too quickly in a short period of time.“The markets have an extremely rosy outlook,” he said. “The smart trade is to trust but verify.”Tensions between police and minority communities that flared two years ago in Ferguson, Mo., after the killing of 18-year-old Michael Brown, didn’t ease in 2016.In a two-week span in July, protests erupted across the country over the police killings of black men in Minnesota and Louisiana—five police officers were gunned down by a sniper at a protest in Dallas, and three officers were killed in Baton Rouge.Since then, officers have been targeted in other killings around the country, and protests persist over officer-involved shootings.This year’s unrest evoked tumultuous times in the 1960s and 1970s, but with a key difference: Protests are targeted primarily at police themselves, said Charles Ramsey, who was Philadelphia police chief for eight years, chief in Washington, D.C., for nearly a decade and co-chair of President Obama’s Task Force on 21st Century Policing.“I have seen years, especially in the early ’70s, when we had more officers” shot, killed and injured, said Mr. Ramsey. “What I haven’t seen is the kind of reaction the public has whenever there is an officer-involved shooting whether it is justified or not.”Police shootings of black men around the country continued to drive a wedge between police and the communities they serve, said Samuel Sinyangwe, co-founder of Campaign Zero, which is focused on ending police violence.“The communities that are distrustful of police are no more trustful of them in part because we have not seen results in terms of reductions of police violence,” said Mr. Sinyangwe.However, Mr. Sinyangwe said cities and states have begun making changes to improve policing.“There is fairly broad consensus that something is going on that needs to be addressed,” he said.Amid the turmoil, however, Americans’ respect for police jumped to its highest levels since 1967, according to a Gallup poll in October.It found 76% of Americans said they have “a great deal” of respect for police in their area, up 12 percentage points from 2015, an increase that experts attributed in part to high-profile attacks on police.But Americans’ view of police splits along racial lines.A Pew Research Center released in September showed that nearly 80% of black Americans believed that police killings of black people are a sign of a broader problem, compared with 54% of whites. The same poll found that 75% of whites believed police treat racial and ethnic groups equally, compared with 35% of blacks.The number of officers killed in the line of duty increased 20% this year to 137 through Dec. 19, according to the National Law Enforcement Memorial Fund. That number is far below the totals from the 1970s, but has raised alarm because 64 officers have been killed by gunfire, a 68% increase from this time last year.Craig Floyd, president of the organization, said that “anti-cop rhetoric” inspired “weak-minded” people to attack police officers this year.Former Dallas Police Chief David Brown, who became a national figure after the attack there, pleaded at the time for protesters and police to unite: “All I know is that this must stop—this divisiveness between our police and our citizens.”The Dallas attack came a day after a police officer in St. Anthony, Minn., shot and killed Philandro Castile, a legally armed black motorist. Mr. Castile was a 32-year-old school-cafeteria supervisor known as “Mr. Rogers  with dreadlocks.”Prosecutors charged the officer, Jeronimo Yanez, with second-degree manslaughter in November. The officer’s attorney said he intends to plead not guilty.SAND ISLAND, Hawaii—After three months of living in his 1995 Mazda Protégé, Oren Elliott Kong found refuge in a converted shipping container on this industrial islet, reached from Honolulu by a single drawbridge south of the airport.Mr. Kong, 67 years old, lived for four months in the Hale Mauliola Housing Navigation Service Center, a temporary housing community created by Honolulu officials to address its swelling homeless population. The use of the old shipping container shows the unconventional steps Hawaii is taking to address its homelessness rate—the highest per capita in the nation, according to federal data—but some advocates worry some of the state’s actions could ultimately make it harder for the state to house its needy residents.Hawaii’s homeless population increased by nearly 36% since 2010, amid a surge in the cost of living, even as the number of homeless people overall has declined nationwide. The crisis has gotten so bad that Democratic Gov. David Ige has repeatedly declared a state of emergency—a step usually reserved for natural disasters—which allows state officials to bypass regular union and contract rules in providing shelter.But those moves, as well as Hawaii’s new criteria for all state-funded shelters, are spurring a debate. Some observers aren’t in favor of using emergency declarations for such a complex issue as homelessness. And shelter providers say the new regulations, requiring more personal space for homeless individuals in shelters, and more toilets and showers, would result in hundreds of fewer beds.Eight shelter providers recently estimated that they would collectively drop from 1,841 shelter beds to 1,179 beds under the new requirements, said Kimo K. Carvalho, director of community relations for the Institute for Human Services, which manages the Hale Mauliola center.“A lot of people are going to end up on the streets,” said Sheila Beckham, chief executive of Waikiki Health, which operates the Next Step shelter in Honolulu, and estimates it will lose 100 beds.Scott Morishige, the state’s homeless coordinator, said the state is reviewing proposals from shelters and couldn’t speculate about how many beds would be available afterward.Shelter providers should “be able to meet minimum standards required by the law,” Mr. Morishige said. “We are really trying to build a housing-focused system aimed at moving people to permanent housing as quickly as possible.’’The state budgeted $19 million on homeless services in the 2016 fiscal year that ended June 30. The governor’s emergency declarations freed up another $7.5 million. The state has budgeted $30 million for homeless services in 2017.Despite that, the state’s homeless population increased 4% between 2015 and 2016 to nearly 8,000 people, according to an annual January survey. More than half of that population slept on the streets, according to the federal data.Mr. Morishige said those numbers don’t reflect the state’s progress since the start of 2016. Though the homeless population increased again, the increase was smaller than in years past. The “tide is turning,” he said.The governor’s emergency declarations—watched closely by other states grappling with large homeless populations—helped distribute financial aid to more than 4,800 people who were homeless or in danger of losing their homes.  About 500 additional units for the homeless were built or renovated, projects that could have taken a year longer without the declaration, said Mr. Morishige.Colin Moore, director of the University of Hawaii’s Public Policy Center, said using an emergency declaration for tackling a complex issue like homelessness is “dangerous.”“Our procurement process and bidding process is so restricted by a variety of rules and union agreements, it takes forever to do anything,” he said. “But I think it sets a dangerous precedent in the future. It is not really what emergency declarations are designed to do.”Tariq Holloway, 26, and Jessica Porter, 25, were able to pay for the first month of a new apartment in August, days before their youngest son, Kamari, was born, thanks to a state-funded grant. The family had been homeless living in the Next Step shelter after Mr. Holloway lost his job as a truck driver.“Even if you are working full time, you are basically living paycheck to paycheck,” Mr. Holloway said.The Hale Mauliola center, where Mr. Kong lived and where the average length of stay is 62 days, was fast-tracked and later expanded through an emergency declaration. While Mr. Kong lived in a tight 49-square-foot space with just a small cot, the landscaped complex has a recreation center, a shuttle service, a bike-share program and full-time security guards. The homes are equipped with solar panels and supplied with donated toiletries from the hotel industry.Mr. Kong, a retired welder who lives off Social Security, said he started living out of his car in February when his landlord evicted the tenants in that property, and he couldn’t find another apartment. The stay in the shipping container helped turn his life around, he said. He has since moved to an apartment. Before an outreach worker helped him get into the shelter, he said, “I didn’t know how I was going to live.”City officials in Summit, N.J., are turning to the ride-hailing app Uber to combat their commuter parking problem.The city is paying for local residents to get Uber rides to and from the train station. The calculation: Such payments are far less expensive than the cost of building enough new parking to accommodate the throngs of commuters heading into and out of New York City each day.A six-month pilot program offers residents an opportunity to take Uber rides to and from Summit’s NJ Transit station at the cost of the $4 daily parking fee. The program, which was limited to 100 residents and runs through March, filled up before it started in October and is now adding names to a waiting list.In all, there are 2,809 parking spaces at the train station, in two structured garages and seven surface lots, and these spaces are typically filled by 8:15 a.m. every weekday morning.“We had a lot of complaints [about insufficient parking] in August and September,” said Michael Rogers, Summit’s city administrator, who noted that in the month after the pilot program started there was a noticeable decrease in complaints. In all, there was a deficit of 200 to 400 parking spaces that has been largely erased, he estimates.Mr. Rogers said that city officials were looking to solve the problem of insufficient parking within the existing infrastructure, and noticed that a lot of the commuters park their cars in valuable space without much turnover. “The cars sit there all day, pretty much for 8, 10, 12 hours, “ he said. When these cars are left at home or for the nanny to use, the space would be freed up for other commuters for the rest of the day.The pilot program is a partnership with Uber Technologies Inc., and the city isn’t subsidizing rides from taxis or from Lyft Inc, a smaller rival to Uber.“Uber helps riders get to transit hubs without having to find parking. It also saves them time having to search for parking, and saves money since they don’t have to pay to park,” said an Uber spokeswoman.Based on the average cost of $7 for each Uber ride, the ride-sharing program will cost about $167,000 a year for 100 residents. This is funded from the parking utility, a stand-alone budget from the collection of parking fees, Mr. Rogers said.By contrast, converting an existing lot with 100 spaces into a structured garage with 400 spaces would cost around $10 million, while land for another surface lot of 100 parking spaces would cost around $5 million to $7 million.“That land doesn’t exist in the area,” Mr. Rogers said, adding that the ride-sharing program also offers flexibility to scale up or down depending on demand for Uber rides. “But when you build a parking structure, it’s permanent.”WASHINGTON—Chief Justice John Roberts devoted his annual report on the judiciary to defending the work of? federal district judges, capping a year when the judiciary was shocked by President-elect Donald Trump’s baseless attacks over the summer on a U.S. judge?who presided over Trump University fraud litigation.The annual summary, released Saturday, made no specific reference to Judge Gonzalo Curiel, who was attacked over his Mexican descent by Mr. Trump on the campaign trail. But the chief justice devoted the report to praising the work of the federal trial bench across the board.“The men and women across the country who today serve as district judges are generally not well known…but they deserve tremendous respect,” Chief Justice Roberts wrote. “While the Supreme Court is often the focus of public attention, our system of justice depends fundamentally on the skill, hard work, and dedication of those outside the limelight.”While campaigning, Mr. Trump, without offering evidence, said the Indiana-born Judge Curiel was biased against him for ethnic reasons related to the Republican candidate’s proposals to crack down on illegal immigrants. “I have a judge who is a hater of Donald Trump, a hater,” Mr. Trump said at one point. Mr. Trump’s lawyers never raised any bias allegations against Judge Curiel and last month settled the fraud claims for $25 million.The chief justice linked today’s district judges to the 13 eminent individuals President George Washington first named to the district courts in 1789, among them several signers of the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution, as well as “Francis Hopkinson of Pennsylvania, a poet and musician as well as a lawyer, [who] designed key precursors of the Great Seal of the United States and the United States flag famously attributed to Betsy Ross.”“Since Washington made his first 13 appointments, each American generation has produced selfless, patriotic, and brave individuals who have stepped forward to serve their country with distinction as federal district judges,” he wrote.Beyond the praise of district judges, Chief Justice Roberts’s report offered no hint of the political controversy engulfing the judiciary in 2016. The year saw an ideologically deadlocked Supreme Court at the center of a bitter partisan struggle following the February death of conservative Justice Antonin Scalia.Six years ago, Chief Justice Roberts used his annual summary to denounce the politics that infects the judicial confirmation process. “Each political party has found it easy to turn on a dime from decrying to defending the blocking of judicial nominations, depending on their changing political fortunes,“ he wrote then, urging Congress and the president ”to find a long-term solution to this recurring problem.”In 2016, Senate Republicans refused to consider President Barack Obama’s March nomination of U.S. Circuit Judge Merrick Garland to fill the Supreme Court vacancy. That blockade appears likely to provide Mr. Trump an opportunity to name a candidate more acceptable to conservative groups after taking office Jan. 20.The chief justice’s report also included statistics on the court system’s workload, which apparently changed little over the year ending Sept. 30. But there were some notable trends.Prisoner petitions in the district courts increased by 55%, Chief Justice Roberts noted, spurred by the Supreme Court’s April decision in Welch v. U.S., “which provided a new basis for certain prisoners convicted under the Armed Career Criminal Act to challenge their sentences.”The federal government filed 19% fewer cases, the report said, as fewer cases involving defaulted student loans and forfeiture and penalty cases were filed.Filings for personal bankruptcy fell 6%, while business petitions declined by 2%, continuing a trend of the past six years, the report said.LONDON—U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May urged unity after what she called a divisive Brexit referendum, and pledged to consider the interests of those who voted to remain in the European Union as she prepares to formally launch exit negotiations with Brussels.Mrs. May’s took a conciliatory tone in her New Year message, amid concerns Britain is headed for a so-called “hard” Brexit, in which the country leaves the EU’s tariff-free single market to curb immigration.Proponents of a softer approach, many of whom voted for Britain to remain in the EU, say continued membership in the single market is too vital to the economy not to cede some control over immigration. The U.K.’s economy is closely tied to the economies in the EU, its largest trading partner.Though she gave no details in the message released late Saturday, Mrs. May said she would also be negotiating for people who voted to stay in the EU.“When I sit around the negotiating table in Europe this year, it will be with that in mind—the knowledge that I am there to get the right deal, not just for those who voted to leave, but for every single person in this country,” Mrs. May said.Mrs. May’s comments come just weeks after she acknowledged for the first time a transitional arrangement might be needed to avoid a “cliff edge” of trading and regulatory uncertainty.She also refused to rule out that Britain may continue to pay into the EU budget to maintain certain privileges that come with its membership.Mrs. May has said she would launch a two-year negotiation over the terms of the U.K.’s departure from the bloc by the end of March, and promised to give more details about her negotiation strategy early this year.In her New Year message, Mrs. May said Britain needed to secure “a better deal at home for ordinary, working people” and close the rift between “those who are prospering, and those who are not.”She invoked the words of Jo Cox, the opposition lawmaker who supported Britain’s continued EU membership and was murdered during the campaign in an attack a U.K. court said was motivated by right-wing extremism: “We are far more united and have far more in common than that which divides us."“We have a golden opportunity to demonstrate that,” Mrs. May said.