Roger Stone Is Sentenced to Over 3 Years in Prison
By Sharon LaFraniereUpdated 3:38 p.m. ET
The sentencing played out amid extraordinary upheaval at the Justice Department and a virtual standoff between the president and the attorney general.

transcript
Roger J. Stone Jr., the Republican political consultant and friend of President Trump, was sentenced to more than three years in prison for obstructing a congressional inquiry.

[crowd shouting] [crowd shouting] “Lock him up! Lock him up! Lock him up! Lock him up!”
Roger J. Stone Jr., the Republican political consultant and friend of President Trump, was sentenced to more than three years in prison for obstructing a congressional inquiry.T.J. Kirkpatrick for The New York Times
WASHINGTON — Roger J. Stone Jr., a longtime friend of President Trump’s, was sentenced Thursday to more than three years in prison for obstructing a congressional inquiry in a bid to protect the president.

The case against Mr. Stone, 67, who has known and advised world Mr. Trump for years, had become a cause célèbre among the president’s supporters. Mr. Trump has attacked the prosecutors, the jury forewoman and the federal judge overseeing the trial, casting his former campaign adviser as the victim of a vendetta by law enforcement.

Hours after the sentencing, Mr. Trump lashed out again at the authorities for prosecuting Mr. Stone and claimed his trial was unfair, but he said he would not intervene using his clemency powers at this point.

“I’m not going to do anything in terms of the great powers bestowed on a president of the United States,” he said at an event in Las Vegas for former convicts easing back into society. “I want the process to play out. I think that’s the best thing to do because I’d love to see Roger exonerated — and I’d love to see it happen — because personally I think he was treated unfairly.”

Instead, he said he would wait to see how the case is ultimately resolved, leaving a clear impression that he would issue a pardon or commutation if he were unsatisfied. “We will watch the process and watch it very closely,” Mr. Trump said. “And at some point, I will make a determination. But Roger Stone and everybody has to be treated fairly. And this has not been a fair process. OK?”

Mr. Stone was convicted of lying to congressional investigators and trying to block the testimony of a witness who would have exposed his lies to the House Intelligence Committee. At the time, the panel was investigating whether Mr. Trump’s campaign conspired with the Russian government to influence the 2016 presidential election.

His sentencing played out amid extraordinary upheaval at the Justice Department set off by Attorney General William P. Barr overruling prosecutors on the case who had asked for a seven- to nine-year sentence. Mr. Barr said that was too harsh.

Judge Amy Berman Jackson excoriated Mr. Stone, saying his efforts to thwart a legitimate congressional inquiry of national importance were “a threat to our most fundamental institutions, to the very foundation of our democracy.” But she stopped well short of the original prosecutors’ recommendation, handing down a sentence of 40 months in prison for Mr. Stone.

Without mentioning Mr. Trump or any of his allies by name, she seemed to point to their conduct, too. “The dismay and the disgust at the attempts by others to defend his actions as just business as usual in our polarized climate should transcend party,” she said.

Mr. Stone is among a half-dozen former Trump aides to be world  convicted — many on charges of lying to investigators or obstructing inquiries — in cases stemming from the investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, into Russia’s election interference. Most already served their sentences or are in prison.

Mr. Stone’s lawyers were expected to appeal.
kennedy library
kennedy library
kennedy library
kennedy library
hello hello
