JAKARTA, Indonesia—A mobile browser rarely used in the West has outflanked Google’s Chrome in some of Asia’s fastest-growing markets, giving owner Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. an advantage in the race among technology giants to capture the next generation of internet users.Hundreds of millions of people in India, Indonesia and other emerging markets getting online for the first time are picking UC Browser, owned by Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba, over ones made by U.S. rivals. Users say UC Browser works better in countries dominated by low-end smartphones and spotty mobile service.“It’s faster, it takes up less memory, and it looks better” than Chrome, said Rizky Ari Prasetya, a 20-year-old Jakarta resident who recently ditched Chrome for UC Browser.India and Indonesia are among the last, great untapped markets for internet users. Just 30% of India’s 1.3 billion people are online, and only 25% of Indonesia’s 260 million use the web, according to the International Telecommunication Union, a United Nations body.UC Browser, which has more than 430 million users world-wide, accounted for 51% of India’s mobile browser market over the past year, compared with 30% for Chrome, according to web analytics firm StatCounter. In Indonesia, UC Browser led Chrome by 41% to 32% during the period.Chrome has more than a billion users world-wide, according to Google, and it has some 47% global market share versus UC Browser’s 16%, according to StatCounter. In the U.S., Chrome has 39% market share, behind Apple Inc.’s Safari browser, which has 52%. UC Browser has less than 1% market share in the U.S.Chrome has a higher market share than UC Browser in some smaller but fast-growing Asian markets, such as the Philippines and Vietnam, according to StatCounter.UC Browser, known for its orange squirrel logo, launched in 2004, giving it a head start. Google unveiled its Chrome browser for computers in 2008, bringing it to its Android mobile operating system in 2012.One reason for UC Browser’s success is its tiny app size and portal-like approach to showing news, scores from sports like cricket and soccer and other content. New web surfers tend to do more through their browsers, and they prefer apps that don’t take up much space on their phones, an insight UC Browser caught onto early.Many smartphones in Asia’s developing markets have just 12 gigabytes of storage, half of the global average and far below the U.S. standard of 32 gigabytes, said Neil Shah, an analyst with research firm Counterpoint.The UC Browser app takes up 31 megabytes of space, compared with Chrome’s 125 megabytes, said Tiago Costa Alves, Asia Pacific vice president at independent Android app store Aptoide.One market UC Browser hasn’t conquered is its own. In China, where many smartphones run on Android, Chrome has 54% of the mobile browser market compared with UC Browser’s 17%, according to StatCounter.UC Browser strives to be “the first window to view the internet” for new web consumers by letting them surf the web using fewer clicks and less data, said Damon Xi, the Alibaba executive overseeing UC Browser’s expansion in India and Indonesia.Mr. Xi said the company’s research has shown that in addition to a smaller app size, users need features such as data compression and ad blocking to conserve mobile bandwidth usage.Google appears to be taking notice. In 2017 alone, its next billion users group, which targets emerging markets, has made more than 40 tweaks and launches of products. Some recent updates to Chrome include making the app and its data usage smaller and adding icons on the home screen that can be clicked to visit popular websites rather than having to type in web addresses, two features UC Browser has offered for some time. Those adjustments may be working, with Chrome’s market share in India and Indonesia increasing in recent months, according to StatCounter.A spokesman for Google, a unit of Alphabet Inc., declined to comment.Any migration away from Google’s built-in browser is bad news for the search king. Chrome funnels users to Google’s search engine and its accompanying advertisements, and Chrome users are more likely to use other Google services like Gmail and cloud-storage platform Google Drive, said Neha Dharia, an analyst at research firm Ovum.While UC Browser doesn’t prohibit users from accessing Google search or services such as YouTube and Google Maps, they tend to use them less than Chrome users, analysts say, because they typically return to the browser. UC Browser also makes money through advertising.Mobile advertising spending in Southeast Asia is set to more than double from about $860 million in 2017 to $2.2 billion in 2021, according to research firm eMarketer. Indian mobile ad spending is projected to rise from $460 million to $1.73 billion during that time. While that is a small sum compared with the $58 billion spent in the U.S. alone in 2017, the browser could give Alibaba an advantage as it looks to tap Asia’s burgeoning markets.Faced with maturing growth and domestic rivals in China, Alibaba is seeking growth in India and Southeast Asia, where it increasingly sees competition from U.S. companies such as Google and Amazon.com Inc.Alibaba last year took a controlling stake in Singapore-based e-commerce firm Lazada Group, an online selling leader in Southeast Asia that competes with Amazon, which launched in the city-state in July. In India, where Amazon has made rapid progress after pledging to invest $5 billion in the country, Alibaba has injected cash in its local competitor Snapdeal.com.One potential challenge to UC Browser’s continued popularity involves concerns over how, as a Chinese firm, it handles users’ data. Chinese technology titans such as Alibaba speak openly about cooperating with authorities on security and law enforcement issues, while U.S. firms often resist U.S. government requests for information. In 2016, Citizen Lab, a Toronto-based human-rights research group known for its studies of internet censorship and surveillance, said there were privacy and security issues with how UC Browser transmitted data. Mr. Xi said UC Browser takes “security and privacy issues very seriously.”The global airline industry achieved a previously unimaginable safety milestone in 2017: independent accident data doesn’t indicate a single airline passenger fatality resulting from a jet crash anywhere in the world.The statistic, released Monday by a Dutch affiliate of the U.S.-based nonprofit Flight Safety Foundation, excludes cargo flights, military transports and accidents caused by intentional acts.Jet makers, the industry’s international trade group and the air-safety arm of the United Nations all compile separate, slightly different annual lists of major commercial accidents and fatalities. The average number of airliner accidents and fatalities has been falling since 1997, with steady and dramatic safety improvements in recent years.In the U.S., scheduled airlines haven’t experienced a fatal crash on any type of equipment since February 2009, when 50 people died from a Colgan Air turboprop plummeting into the ground while approaching to land at the Buffalo, N.Y. airport. In the intervening years, the Federal Aviation Administration shows an average of at least nine million flights per year.But for safety geeks, global 2017 results were literally off the charts. Since modern jet propulsion became commonplace some six decades ago, safety experts said they couldn’t recall a year without passenger fatalities occurring on jet aircraft.“It’s the culmination of decades of work by thousands of people,” according to industry consultant John Cox, a former U.S. airline captain, accident investigator and senior pilot-union safety official. “Now that we have proven we can do it,” he said Monday, industry leaders and regulators will continue to improve the record, “because the expectation in aviation is ‘never good enough.’”The Aviation Safety Network released a comprehensive, world-wide list of 10 fatal airliner accidents in 2017 resulting in 44 onboard deaths, including 12 peopled killed Sunday when a single-engine Cessna Gran Caravan crashed in Costa Rica.But five of those were cargo operations, and the rest involved propeller-powered planes. With nearly 37 million commercial flights estimated around the globe for 2017, the overall rate for fatal airliner accidents ended up at one per roughly 7.4 million flights, according to Harro Ranter, president of the safety network.By any measure, that made 2017 the safest year ever for airline operations. The group reported 16 total fatal airliner crashes in 2016, with 304 fatalities, and eight fatal accidents excluding intentional acts the year earlier, resulting in 163 deaths.The latest data also extends to nearly 400 days the stretch without a passenger airline jet accident. According to a chart posted on the safety network’s website, the total number of yearly airliner accidents has been slashed by two-thirds over the past decade.Protests erupted across Iran for a third day on Saturday, challenging the nearly four-decade clerical rule of the Islamic Republic.The protests—the largest and most widespread since an uprising against the outcome of the 2009 presidential elections—are calling for regime change, a move that could have repercussions across the region as the country yields considerable influence over Middle East nations including Iraq, Lebanon, Syria and Yemen.Here is what you need to know about the protests:1. How did the protests start?Small, scattered protests focused on economic grievances had been percolating in multiple Iranian cities since September. Crowds there gathered to demonstrate against alleged financial corruption, budget allocations for religious institutions and the bankruptcy of retirement funds.On Thursday in the northeast city of Mashhad, people took to the streets to express their anger over inflation and what they said was President Hassan Rouhani’s failure to deliver on his promises of economic prosperity. Iranians had hoped Mr. Rouhani’s administration and a nuclear deal with other world powers would end Iran’s isolation and lead to foreign investment, jobs and better purchasing power. While the economy grew following the deal, unemployment is officially reported to be around 12.5% and inflation is nearly 10%.News of the protest spread on social-media apps such as Telegram and WhatsApp, which are popular in Iran. Within hours, spontaneous protests broke out in other cities, such as Kermanshah, Isfahan and Tehran.The demonstrations, which started over disappointment with the economy, eventually shifted to demands against political oppression by the Iranian government as the middle class, student activists and dissidents joined the working class and labor unions.By Friday and Saturday, the protests had spread across the country, including cities such as Qom, the bedrock of Shiite clerical rule, and other regime strongholds known for their conservative and religious populations.2. What do the protesters want?Bypassing the traditional demands for reform, the protesters are calling for the ouster of the regime and for Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei to step down.During some demonstrations, crowds chanted “Seyed Ali shame on you, let go of power” and “Sorry Seyed Ali, it’s time to go.” In Tehran, protesters faced a mural of Mr. Khamenei and shouted “Death to you.” Openly targeting Mr. Khamenei, who is considered God’s representative on Earth, is a crime that carries the death penalty.In a number of cities, demonstrators have expressed nostalgia for the last monarchical rulers of Iran, the Pahlavi dynasty, by evoking the name of its founder Reza Shah. Many Iranians consider Reza Shah to be the father of modern Iran and his era is associated with a time of economic prosperity.3. What are protesters chanting?Iranians have a knack for political slogans that rhyme in Persian as if they were verses of poetry.Here are some slogans being chanted at the protests, translated into English:“We don’t want an Islamic Republic, we don’t want it, we don’t want it.”“They are using Islam as an excuse to drive people crazy.”“Independence, Freedom, Iranian Republic.”“Reformists, hard-liners, Game is over.”“We are all Iranians, we don’t accept Arabs.”“We are getting poor and clerics are driving fancy cars.”“Reza Shah, Rest in Peace.”“We will die but we will take Iran back.”“Come out to the streets Iranians, shout for your rights.”“Death to the Revolutionary Guards.”4. How has the regime responded?Riot police and plainclothes militia have taken to the streets across Iran but the crackdowns have been far tamer than previous protests.Some Iranian officials have also taken a different tack, acknowledging that the public has legitimate economic grievances that the government needs to address. At the same time, they blamed outside forces—such as foreign media and exiled opposition leaders—for hijacking the protests and instigating political unrest.The protests haven’t been without incident, however. By Saturday night local time, Iranians were posting videos of scattered clashes with security forces using batons and tear gas in multiple cities to scatter crowds. Video footage also was being distributed of two protesters who were reportedly shot and killed in the Western province of Lorestan.Internet service was being slowed down in Tehran and had been cut in Mashhad, where the protests began, and incoming international calls were blocked.5. Where will the protests go and how has the U.S. administration reacted?Uprisings in Iran tend to die out because of a lack of leadership, clear organization and goals. If the protests persist, the regime may crack down harder on them, with mass arrests and military lockdowns.In a post on his Twitter account, U.S. President Donald Trump wrote of his support for the Iranian protesters, saying the world was watching. Other American officials and political figures, such as House Speaker Paul Ryan (R., Wis.) and Sen. Tom Cotton (R., Ark.), also have expressed solidarity with the people of Iran.Foreign support can often be detrimental for protesters within Iran, as it routinely is used by the regime to undermine homegrown opposition demands.NEW YORK—Brian Gionta was named Monday to his second U.S. Olympic men’s hockey team, but he said this time felt much different than the first. He will turn 39 on Jan. 19, and as the oldest member of the squad, will serve as the captain of an American team that includes no one else with Olympic experience.Twelve years ago, Gionta, a forward from Rochester, N.Y., who was then with the New Jersey Devils, played for a U.S. team comprised solely of NHL players that finished eighth at the 2006 Torino Olympic Games.“You’re able to soak up more of it now,” Gionta said at a news conference at Citi Field during the Winter Classic between the New York Rangers and Buffalo Sabres. Gionta said he got chills when hearing talk about wearing Team USA’s red, white and blue uniform again.Gionta, who played the previous three NHL seasons in Buffalo, said it was nice to say hello to several Sabres players who were his teammates last year. While he is a free agent this season, he said he would be interested in joining an NHL team if he plays well in the Olympic tournament next month in Pyeongchang, South Korea.But his focus for the next two months will be to help U.S. men’s coach, Tony Granato, who is the head coach at the University of Wisconsin, and his new teammates come together quickly. With three pool-round games in four days, they will have to gel quickly.“I don’t know if we could have found a better person or a player for that,” Granato said of Gionta. “He played three games for us over in Germany in November and it was like he was in mid-season form.”Expectations for the U.S. team in Pyeongchang are likely to be low after their recent performance in Germany. The Americans were outscored by 12-4 and lost all three games they played in the Deutschland Cup, but they out shot their opponents, 96-60, and held the puck for 62% of play, leaving Granato encouraged. The squad in South Korea will include some of the players who were in Germany.NHL players represented the U.S. at five Winter Olympics from 1998 to 2014, winning silver medals in Salt Lake City in 2002 and Vancouver in 2010.Citing travel and a long break, as well as potential for injuries, the NHL announced in April that it wouldn’t send players to the Olympics—although it is a showcase for international hockey. As Gionta said Monday, “The world stops to watch the Olympics.”The U.S. plays three games in Pool B: Slovenia on Feb. 14, Slovakia on Feb. 16 and Russia on Feb. 17. If the team advances, it will play in the quarterfinals on Feb. 21, with the semifinals on Feb. 23. The gold-medal game is Feb. 25.Gionta, who scored 289 goals in 1,006 NHL games, is one of 16 players on the Olympic team with NHL experience. Fifteen U.S. players on the roster are currently playing in Europe.Granato said two goaltenders will be added to the roster this month, but he said the starter is likely to be Ryan Zapolski, a 31-year-old native of Erie, Pa., who now plays for Helsinki Jokerit in the Kontinental Hockey League. He has a 1.68 goals-against average this season.“He’s a guy who’s had a phenomenal year,” Granato said. “He’s experienced with international play. He’s earned that [the starting position] by his body of work.”There are four collegiate players on the U.S. team: Ryan Donato, a high-scoring forward from Harvard; Will Borgen, a defenseman from St. Cloud State; Jordan Greenway, a 6-foot-6 forward from Boston University, and Troy Terry, a forward from the University of Denver.“I’m really looking forward to playing with this team,” Terry said Monday. “I talked to the coaches, and we want to play a high-paced game. We’re going to play fast. I know we have the ability on this team to make plays.”The 20-year-old Terry said he was excited to play with a player like Gionta. “He’s had such a great career—just knowing I’m going to be on the same team as him is very cool” Terry said.As for Gionta, he is hoping 2018 brings a perfect cap to his career. “That’s the one thing that’s eluded me—an Olympic medal. It would be a great way to end things.”MILWAUKEE—Bone-chilling cold gripped much of the central U.S. as 2018 began Monday, breaking century-old records, icing over some New Year’s celebrations and leading to at least two deaths attributed to exposure to the elements.The National Weather Service issued wind-chill advisories covering a vast area from South Texas to Canada and from Montana and Wyoming through New England. Dangerously low temperatures enveloped much of the Midwest, yet didn’t deter hundreds of people from ringing in the new year by jumping into Lake Michigan.Despite subfreezing temperatures and a warning of potential hypothermia from the local fire chief, throngs of people took part in the annual tradition in Milwaukee, warming up later with chili or heat from a beach fire pit.A similar event was canceled from the Chicago lakefront, where the temperature dipped below zero as thick white steam rose from the lake Monday morning. Organizers said the arctic blast made jumping into the lake too dangerous.“I’m not happy about it,” Jeff Coggins, who helped organize the event, told WBBM-TV. “But I was down by the lake and, gosh, if you were dropped in there, it’d take you 10 minutes to get out.”Instead, would-be Chicago plungers had their pictures taken while jumping on the frozen beach—in their swimsuits.Temperatures plunged below zero elsewhere in the Midwest, including in Aberdeen, S.D., where the mercury dropped to a record-breaking minus 32 Fahrenheit. The previous New Year’s Day record had stood for 99 years.In Nebraska, temperatures hit 15 below zero before midnight Sunday in Omaha, breaking a record low dating to 1884. Omaha officials cited the forecast in postponing the 18th annual New Year’s Eve Fireworks Spectacular that draws around 30,000 people.It was colder in Des Moines, where city officials closed a downtown outdoor ice-skating plaza and said it wouldn’t reopen until the city emerged from sub-zero temperatures. The temperature hit 20 below zero early Monday, with the wind chill dipping to negative 31 degrees.In northeastern Montana, the wind-chill readings dipped as low as minus 58. And in Duluth, Minn., a city known for its bitter cold winters, the wind chill dipped to 36 below zero.Plunging overnight temperatures in Texas brought rare snow flurries as far south as Austin, and accidents racked up on icy roads across the state. In the central Texas city of Abilene, the local police chief said more than three dozen vehicle crashes were reported in 24 hours.It was even cold in the Deep South, a region more accustomed to brief bursts of arctic air than night after night below zero. Frozen pipes and dead car batteries were concerns from Louisiana to Georgia as overnight temperatures in the teens were predicted across the region by Monday night.The Milwaukee County Medical Examiner’s office said two bodies found Sunday showed signs of hypothermia. They included a man in his 50s found on the ground in an alley and a 34-year-old man. Police believe the cold weather also may have been a factor in the death of a man in Bismarck, N.D., whose body was found near a river.As turbulent as Donald Trump’s political career has been thus far, he has always been consistent about two things: First, that the U.S. should aggressively pursue energy independence; second, that the U.S. is getting short shrift on its trade deals, including the North American Free Trade Agreement.As the administration moves to modernize Nafta, however, it should remember that free trade with Canada and Mexico is vital to securing America’s energy independence in the long run.North America now leads the world in energy production, largely because the U.S. has become the No. 1 producer of crude oil and natural gas. This outcome was by no means obvious when Nafta became law in 1993. But by creating a free-trade zone for energy, the agreement helped all three countries’ energy sectors flourish.In 2016 the three North American economies produced a total of 22 million barrels a day of crude oil, associated liquids and biofuels, according to the Energy Information Administration, with 14.9 million barrels coming from the U.S. Saudi Arabia produced 12.4 million barrels a day and Russia 11.2 million. The fourth-largest producer, China, has less than half of Russia’s production.When it comes to natural gas, the numbers are even more skewed toward the U.S., which produced 27.1 trillion cubic feet in 2015 compared with Russia’s 21.1 trillion. Third-ranked Iran extracts one-quarter of what the U.S. produced. Canada comes in fifth, after Qatar. Altogether, North America produced about 33.8 trillion cubic feet of natural gas in 2015.But these solid figures, dominated by U.S. production, should not obscure an important point: Each of the three North American economies, and its energy sector, depends on the other two.Canada and Mexico need the U.S. to buy their excess crude oil, and the U.S. needs its neighbors to cover its own shortfall. According to the EIA, the U.S. consumes about six million more barrels of crude oil and related products a day than it produces. The U.S. imports about three million barrels a day from Canada, its largest energy trading partner. Although total Mexican crude-oil production has been declining, Mexico still exports about 688,000 barrels a day to the U.S. With U.S. technology and investment, Mexican production and exports could be significantly higher—perhaps enough, together with Canada, to close the U.S. gap.Canada depends heavily on U.S. refineries, especially in the Midwest and on the Gulf Coast, which specialize in processing Canada’s heavy crude. Mexico also depends on the U.S. to refine its crude, which Mexico buys back as gasoline and diesel.Another important result of Nafta is that more natural-gas pipelines are being built so the U.S. can help Mexico turn to cleaner-burning natural gas for its electricity generation. In 2016 the value of U.S. energy imports from Mexico was $8.7 billion, while U.S. energy exports to Mexico were $20.2 billion, for a positive energy trade surplus of $11.5 billion, according to the EIA. While most economists don’t put much stock in international trade balances, the Trump administration cares a lot about them, and under Nafta the U.S. energy sector has a positive trade balance with Mexico.Nafta’s elimination of virtually all tariffs on energy-related goods has greatly enhanced North America’s energy potential, but there is still room for improvement. A modernized Nafta should include a labor provision that allows workers in the oil and gas industry to travel to any of the three countries, especially in emergencies. Mexico needs U.S. technology and assistance to modernize and expand its energy sector, while the U.S. might need more workers in oil fields in places like West Texas.A modernized Nafta should also recognize the threat that could emerge for North America if other major energy exporters tried to punish the U.S. for its foreign policies. Such an agreement might give Nafta countries preference for oil and gas purchases if, say, Iran blocked U.S.-bound tankers from passing through the Strait of Hormuz.Free trade in energy across North America has transformed the industry, putting the continent on track to self-sufficiency while boosting economic growth for all three countries, especially Mexico. And if Mr. Trump really wants to reduce the flow of illegal aliens to the U.S., a thriving Mexican economy is the best way to do it.Energy independence for the U.S. alone is still years away. But thanks to free trade, energy independence for North America is within our grasp. A modernized Nafta can help make that goal a reality very soon.Mayor Bill de Blasio was sworn into his second term on New Year’s Day, in a ceremony that brought Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders to lower Manhattan to promote their shared promises to fight income inequality.Mr. Sanders, an Independent, administered the oath of office on the steps of City Hall, praising the Democratic mayor for making New York “one of the most progressive cities” in the U.S.Puffing white clouds of breath in the 16-degree air, the senator joked that “by Vermont standards, this is a warm and pleasant afternoon.” Some in the audience huddled under blue blankets and had hand warmers.Mr. Sanders, who ran for president in 2016, railed against efforts by the Republican-controlled federal government to roll back environmental regulations, health-care coverage and legal protections for young immigrants brought here by parents without documentation. He praised New York City leaders for going in the other direction by offering sanctuary, more mental-health services, and a spirit of inclusion.“What Mayor de Blasio and his administration understand is that in this country, in the home of Ellis Island, our job is to bring people together with love and compassion and to end the divisions and the attacks that are taking place,” he said.Mr. de Blasio, 56 years old, heads into a second four-year term boasting a decline in major crimes and the expansion of free full-day prekindergarten. Critics contend he hasn’t done enough to address homelessness, the lack of affordable housing and mounting city spending, among other issues.Under the first Democratic mayor of New York City in more than two decades, the city has added more than 25,000 employees and spending has increased by nearly 20%, to roughly $61.3 billion this year, from about $51.2 billion in fiscal 2014. Mr. de Blasio has said the city’s strong economy allows it to help New Yorkers who need it most.The mayor’s team predicted the ceremony would last about 40 minutes due to the extreme cold, but it clocked in at more than an hour. Mr. de Blasio, accompanied by his wife and two children, spoke for 13 minutes.He didn’t announce new initiatives, but echoed campaign vows to champion an agenda on behalf of working people for a fairer city, with more affordable housing and jobs that pay well.“The true owners of this beloved place are not the big landlords and developers, not the titans of Wall Street and the 1%,” the mayor said. “The deepest, truest stakeholders of this town are the people who do the work, who every day make this city come to life, but have too often not reaped the rewards.”A spokesman said the mayor’s “State of the City” speech later this winter would include more detailed plans for education, housing and public safety.The city clerk administered the official oath of office in a more intimate setting Sunday evening at Grace Mansion; Monday’s event was more ceremonial. City Comptroller Scott Stringer and Public Advocate Letitia James were sworn in Monday, as well.Former Democratic Mayor David Dinkins attended Monday. Missing from the festivities were several politicians who figured prominently in Mr. de Blasio’s first inauguration, including Gov. Andrew Cuomo, a Democrat. The two men had a frosty relationship during the mayor’s first term, with tensions over budget issues, charter schools and competing plans to fix public transportation. The governor opted to swear in new Nassau County Executive Laura Curran, a Democrat, in Mineola.Bill and Hillary Clinton didn’t respond to invitations to attend, a spokesman for the mayor said. Representatives for the Clintons couldn’t be reached for comment.As Donald Trump heads into his second year as President, we’re pleased to report that there hasn’t been a fascist coup in Washington. This must be terribly disappointing to the progressive elites who a year ago predicted an authoritarian America because Mr. Trump posed a unique threat to democratic norms. But it looks like the U.S. will have to settle for James Madison’s boring checks and balances.“How to stop an autocracy,” said a Feb. 7, 2017 headline on Vox, ruminating on a zillion-word essay in The Atlantic on how Donald Trump might impose authoritarian rule. Academics and pundits mined analogies to Mussolini, Hitler and Vladimir Putin.Four political scientists even formed something called Bright Line Watch—with the help of foundation money—to “monitor the status of democratic practices and highlight potential threats to American democracy.” Readers won’t be surprised to learn that the only graver threat than Mr. Trump is the Republican Congress that refuses to impeach him.One of the Bright Line Watch founders, University of Rochester professor Gretchen Helmke, wrote in the Washington Post on April 25, “Could Trump set off a constitutional crisis? Here’s what we can learn from Latin America.”A year later, where are we on the road to Venezuela?***Far from rolling over Washington institutions like a tank, Mr. Trump seems as frustrated as other Presidents with the limits of his power. He achieved one major legislative goal in tax reform but failed on health care. His border wall isn’t built and he may have to legalize the “Dreamer” immigrants if he wants Congress to approve money for it.Mr. Trump’s political appointees still aren’t close to fully staffing the executive branch. He’s making more headway on judges, but that’s partly due to former Democratic leader Harry Reid’s decision in 2013 to eliminate the Senate filibuster for judicial nominees. The press cheered on that partisan, mid-session change of Senate rules to pack the courts.Mr. Trump’s rhetorical attacks on the media are excessive. But for all of his bluster, we haven’t seen a single case of Trump prosecutors seeking warrants to eavesdrop on journalists to discover their sources. Barack Obama’s Justice Department surreptitiously did that to the Associated Press and James Rosen of Fox News in violation of Justice guidelines.As for legal checks and balances, progressive judges in the lower courts have overturned three versions of Mr. Trump’s travel ban. Their legal analysis is dubious given the Constitution’s grant of authority to the political branches on immigration and national security, and our guess is that the Supreme Court will eventually overrule the lower courts. But the point is that judges are hardly deferring to the Trump Administration. Oh, and since when do tyrants deregulate to take power away from the administrative state?Mr. Trump is also facing a special counsel investigation with essentially unchecked power to investigate him and his family. Robert Mueller is ostensibly charged with looking into ties between Russians and the 2016 Trump campaign, but Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein appears to have given Mr. Mueller carte blanche.Attorney General Jeff Sessions recused himself from the Russia probe and seems unable to exert any discipline over the FBI. The Justice Department ultimately reports to Mr. Trump. Yet he can’t even get his nominees at the FBI and Justice to tell Congress what they used as evidence to get a FISA warrant against Trump campaign officials in 2016. Who is the unaccountable authority here?The real story of the past year is that, despite the daily Trumpian melodrama, the U.S. political system is working more or less as usual. Mr. Trump has sometimes broken with familiar presidential decorum, especially in his public statements and attacks on individuals. But he is paying a considerable political price for that excess with an approval rating below 40% less than a year into his term.Voters rejected his preferred Senate candidates in Alabama twice. Republicans were routed in Virginia’s elections as Democrats came out in droves, and on present trend the GOP will lose its House majority in November. In other words, we are watching the typical back and forth of American democracy.Democratic institutional norms are worth defending, which is why we called out the Obama IRS for bias against the tea party. We’ll do the same if Mr. Trump exceeds his constitutional power. But the lesson of the past year is that progressives should have more faith in the American system—whether they’re in power or not. Losing an election isn’t the same as losing a democracy.Here’s something more miraculous than Congress spending less money—the United Nations doing it. Yet that’s what happened at the end of 2017 as the 193-nation General Assembly agreed to a 5% spending cut in its new biennial budget after American prodding.The General Assembly agreed by consensus to shrink the U.N. budget by $286 million, to $5.4 billion, down 5% from the prior budget. The U.N. will save about $50 million by trimming hiring and overhead costs, and another $18 million from cutting the U.N. Department of Management, better known as human resources. The peacekeeping operations budget, which was negotiated separately earlier in 2017, was reduced by $593 million to $7.3 billion, a 7.5% cut.The General Assembly also agreed to spending reforms, including restrictions on construction projects and an audit of the U.N.’s $60 billion staff pension fund. Starting in 2020, the U.N. will move to annual budgeting, which Secretary-General spokesman Stéphane Dujarric called “one of the most significant shifts in the programme planning and budgeting process of the Organization since the 1970s,” which says a lot about the U.N.’s accounting systems.These reductions are hardly draconian. They don’t include cuts to the U.N.’s elevator operators, who cost about $300,000 per year, or trim the budget of the International Court of Justice’s judges and spouses, who travel first class. Committee for Programme and Coordination members, a strategic planning group for bureaucrats, holds a five-week meeting every year in New York City, rather than meet in a cheaper location or via teleconference.Secretary-General António Guterres has supported the reforms. But none of this would have happened without pressure from the United States. President Trump called out the U.N.’s bloated bureaucracy and “mismanagement” in September, and U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Nikki Haley has pressed the case. The U.S. has leverage at the U.N. because it provides 22% of its budget, but credit the Trump Administration for finally using it.Gov. Cuomo claims that capping the federal income tax deduction for state and local taxes leads to unfair double taxation (Review & Outlook, Dec. 29, “Andrew Cuomo’s Tax Lament”).But, ironically, the governor oversees one of the worst double taxation schemes in America: New York taxes the entire income of a nonresident who works for a New York employer when a nonresident works from home in another state and pays tax in that state.Consider me. I teach tax law three days a week at the Cardozo Law School of Yeshiva University in Manhattan. From my home in New Haven, Connecticut, I write articles and grade exams during the other two days of the week.I thus work in and use Connecticut services for 40% of my week and pay Connecticut taxes on the income earned on those days. Nevertheless, New York taxes me on 100% of my income including my days worked at home in Connecticut.Gov. Cuomo’s protests about the state-local tax deduction would be more credible if New York stopped double taxing nonresidents on the days they work at their out of state homes.