If the second inauguration of Mayor Bill de Blasio on Monday lacked some of the excitement of his first go-round, the undercard at the event — a pair of speeches by the newly re-elected comptroller, Scott M. Stringer, and the public advocate, Letitia A. James — provided at least a hint of dramatic tension.Both politicians are in the second and final terms of their offices and are already being talked about in political circles as potential rivals in the Democratic primary for mayor in 2021. And so, for each, the inauguration address was the unofficial opening stump speech of what is likely to be a protracted, if not yet announced, campaign to succeed Mr. de Blasio, a Democrat.Mr. Stringer, in his speech, made a nod to consensus, calling the mayor and Ms. James his “partners in government,” while pointedly focusing on the economic inequality and poverty that still bedevil New York City four years after Mr. de Blasio promised to end what he termed the “tale of two cities.”“More New Yorkers live in poverty than there are people in Philadelphia or Phoenix,” Mr. Stringer said in an address that included no direct mention of the job of comptroller. “If we become a place where the entrance fee is a $2 million condo and where only the most privileged can prosper, then we will betray the promise of New York.”Ms. James, for her part, aimed for the political center and used unifying language that appeared to reach for President Barack Obama’s early rhetoric.“All New Yorkers want a safe neighborhood where police and communities are partners and where your success is determined by your hard work and God-given potential,” she said, addressing a crowd of more than 900 huddled with blankets and handwarmers on the frigid City Hall plaza. “These are not Republican or Democratic values. These are not even just New York values. These are American values.”In a speech marked by messages of cooperation and a summary of her record, Ms. James took two veiled shots at Mr. de Blasio, bringing up the need for public housing that is “free of dangerous lead” — a reference to failures at the city’s Housing Authority under Mr. de Blasio to test for the potentially hazardous lead paint — and the city’s chronic homelessness crisis. “The best solution for homelessness is more homes, not more shelters,” she said. The mayor has called for 90 new shelters across the city.But Mr. de Blasio, from his seat behind the podium on the dais, nodded in agreement both times.“Today was the first unofficial day of the 2021 campaign,” said David Greenfield, a former city councilman from Brooklyn who attended the ceremony.Mr. Stringer and Ms. James are not the only ones in the undeclared competition.The extended list, at this far-too-early date, also includes officials like the borough presidents of the Bronx and Brooklyn — Ruben Diaz Jr. and Eric Adams — and Deputy Mayor Alicia Glen, who at least one administration official has said would be interested in making a run. (Others have denied that she has any interest.) Each would be out of a job in four years and may be looking for the next high political perch. All three were in attendance on Monday.Some political observers have also added Corey Johnson, who was also at the ceremony and is beginning his final term as a council member and is expected to be elected speaker of the City Council on Wednesday.“I think Quinn is in the minds of most electeds looking to 2021,” said Christina Greer, a professor of political science at Fordham University, who attended the inauguration Monday. Christine C. Quinn, the former City Council speaker, was seen as aligned with the policies of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, which hurt her Democratic primary bid in 2013. In other words, the mayoral hopefuls will quite likely spend much of the next four years as foils to Mr. de Blasio.It is a familiar dynamic.“I guarantee you in the next four years, we’re going to agree on everything!” Mr. de Blasio said sardonically of Ms. James and Mr. Stringer during his inaugural address.Mr. Stringer, who privately toyed with the idea of mounting a primary challenge to Mr. de Blasio in 2017, begins the competition ahead in the money game. Because he did not accept matching funds for his re-election campaign for comptroller — a race in which he faced no strong competition — he can roll over much of his campaign cash into his 2021 mayoral campaign account, a sum that his aides put at more than $1.3 million.Mr. Diaz had about $900,000 after his re-election race, though only about $600,000 of it could be rolled over into a campaign account because he took public funds for his campaign that he will have to return, according to a spokesman. So did Ms. James for her largely carefree cruise back to the public advocate’s office; she also has far less in her account — about $39,000 — and the unspent funds would have to be paid back.But there is a lot of time to make up ground.“Tish James!” a man at the inauguration, wearing a pair of blankets over his wool coat, yelled out several times, whenever her name came up. He left after Ms. James spoke.Before the inauguration, several council members in attendance joked that whoever gave the shortest speech would be the early favorite for 2021.In that, Mr. Stringer, prevailed. While Ms. James’s remarks stretched to 13 minutes, his ended in less than six.It took 37 minutes of sitting outside in 18-degree weather on Monday before Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont unfurled one of the blue blankets that had been laid out for guests at Mayor Bill de Blasio’s second inauguration and spread it over his legs.A personal space heater sat in front of former Mayor David N. Dinkins, who turned 90 in July, and Mr. de Blasio drew some of his biggest applause when he jokingly gave the crowd the choice of a brief speech.“You are the most distinguished frozen group of people I have ever spoken before,” said Mr. de Blasio, whose speech lasted about 13 minutes.Mr. de Blasio is the first Democrat in 32 years to win re-election, and one of the hallmark achievements of his tenure has been the city’s plunging homicide rate, which he cited in his speech. But the frigid temperatures stole the show as Mr. de Blasio took the oath of office before several hundred guests — including dozens of people stationed beneath heat lamps spread throughout City Hall plaza.“Now, by Vermont standards this is a warm and pleasant afternoon,” Mr. Sanders, who did not wear a hat, said during his speech.The entire event ran for 69 minutes and included the swearing-in and speeches from Scott M. Stringer, the comptroller, and Letitia James, the public advocate, as well as Mr. de Blasio.Security was tight, with streets around City Hall blocked off to to cars, City Hall Park padlocked closed, heavily armed police officers patrolling the area and bomb-sniffing dogs deployed in the City Hall subway station.Isaac Kusi, a 63-year-old immigrant from Ghana who makes beauty products, said he had been invited because he had been a volunteer for Mr. de Blasio’s campaign, working on phone banks in the Bronx.“I contributed to the campaign,” he said, explaining that he also donated a small amount toward Mr. de Blasio’s re-election.Mr. Kusi said he was not going to let the weather keep him away. He kept warm under several layers in addition to the blue blanket he gripped in his gloved hands.“It’s a fake fur hat!” he said laughing when asked about his black hat. “It keeps the heat in.”Feeling the BernIt was Mr. de Blasio’s inauguration, but the clear star was Mr. Sanders.Vicki Winters, 60, a travel agent and blogger, said that she braved the cold “because I love Bernie Sanders, because I feel the Bern.” She wore an ankle-length mink coat and matching mink hat that had belonged to her mother, along with battery-powered, heated gloves.“I think de Blasio is good, but when I heard Bernie Sanders was going to be here I wanted to come and show the love,” said Ms. Winters, adding that she got tickets that had been made available online by City Hall.Benjy Kile, 47, and his son Harry, 18, a senior at Brooklyn Technical High School, whose alumni include Mr. de Blasio’s son, Dante, also had come to see Mr. Sanders.“Well, you know, it’s the second time around,” Benjy Kile said of the mayoral inauguration. “He and I are big Bernie fans.”The father and son also drew attention for their choice to wear shorts.“The cops thought we were from Canada. Somebody else thought Alaska. Nope: 20th Street,” Benjy Kile said. “My legs stay warm.”“We didn’t check the weather,” his son added.Mr. Sanders, in his remarks, touched on his signature issues, such as health care, climate change and income inequality.“In this city, the largest city in our country, the people of New York, under Bill de Blasio, have chosen to move government in a very different direction than what we’ve seen in Washington,” Mr. Sanders said.Ruben Diaz Jr., the Bronx borough president, said that hearing Mr. Sanders speak made up for the brutal cold.“He could have been anywhere in the country,’’ Mr. Diaz said. “I’m sure he’s in high demand, but he decided to be here with our mayor, and us, in New York City.“It was the added bonus. If there was a purpose to be out here in the middle of the cold — or a number of reasons — Bernie was certainly on top of that list.”This Time, Cuomo Chose to be ElsewhereGov. Andrew M. Cuomo, who has had a strained relationship with Mr. de Blasio, was one of the many dignitaries at the mayor’s first inauguration four years ago. This time he decided to bypass the event and instead spent part of Monday on Long Island, swearing in Laura Curran, a Democrat, as the Nassau County executive.Ms. Curran, a former reporter for New York City tabloids who was elected in November, told the audience at the county government building in Mineola that one of her main priorities was to help overcome the county’s record of political corruption.“One of my most pressing challenges is to restore trust and respect in our government so we as a county can chart a new path forward,’’ Ms. Curran said as the audience huddled against the cold. “Over the decades the erosion of trust has broken down the bonds between the government and the people it serves, but the stakes are too high for that to continue. Now is the time for action.”Some of the loudest cheers were for Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York, who is not known for being pithy. Mr. Schumer opted to discard his prepared remarks and gave a relatively short speech. He then raced to Manhattan to make a late appearance at Mr. de Blasio’s inauguration.There’s a First Time for EverythingThis wasn’t the first time Justin Brannan had been at City Hall on Jan. 1 for an inauguration. But this time, he was attending as an elected official.Mr. Brannan was elected to the City Council from the 43rd District in Brooklyn, to replace Vincent J. Gentile, a term-limited councilman for whom he served as director of communications.“This is the second inauguration for Mayor de Blasio, so it’s a continuation, but it’s also a new beginning in a lot of ways,” Mr. Brannan said as he stood inside City Hall chatting with his new colleagues while waiting for the ceremony to begin.“It’s pretty cool. My family is pretty excited,” Mr. Brannan said.What’s the biggest difference between attending the inauguration now and as an aide?“The best part is that I get to wait inside,’’ Mr. Brannan said. “Otherwise I’d be outside freezing.”The families had striking similarities: They lived in prosperous suburbs, had children in college, enjoyed exploring other cultures and were strongly involved in Jewish causes.Both families — the Steinbergs, a family of five from Scarsdale, N.Y., and the Weisses, a family of four from Belleair, Fla. — were killed on Sunday when the single-engine turboprop they were traveling in crashed into a hill in Costa Rica shortly after takeoff. An American tour guide also died, as did two Costa Rican crew members.The crash of the plane, a Cessna 208B Caravan traveling from Punta Islita, on the Pacific Coast, to San José, the capital, was the deadliest in Costa Rica since 1990.“It is a devastating loss to their families and to our congregation,” said Rabbi Jacob Luski of Congregation B’nai Israel of St. Petersburg, Fla., who in a phone interview on Monday confirmed the deaths of husband and wife Mitchell Weiss, 52, and Leslie L. Weiss, 50; their daughter, Hannah M. Weiss, 19; and their son, Ari M. Weiss, 16.“They were together and they all perished,” he said. “It is a terrible tragedy.”Leslie Weiss was a neonatal pediatrician, and Mitchell Weiss was the head of interventional radiology, both at Morton Plant Hospital in Clearwater, Fla. “Their lives and medical skills have touched so many in and around our community, and we are forever grateful to them,” Kris Hoce, the hospital’s president, said in a statement mourning their deaths.Hannah and Ari were both involved in the southeastern chapter of United Synagogue Youth, a Conservative Jewish organization that promotes engagement with Israel, and that announced their deaths in a Facebook post.Hannah was a student at List College, the undergraduate school of the Jewish Theological Seminary in New York City, under a program that allows students to pursue two bachelor’s degrees simultaneously, in coordination with Columbia University.“Hannah was a wonderful student, great friend, strong leader and a beloved member of our community,” Shuly R. Schwartz, the dean of List College, said in a statement. “Above all, she was deeply passionate about the environment.”In a telephone interview, Dr. Schwartz said that Hannah was in her second year at the college and had not yet declared a major, although she was involved in environmental sustainability studies and Jewish thought and ethics.In telephone interviews, David and Alexis Lerner, resident directors of a dormitory at the college who knew Hannah, said she had successfully petitioned the school to install bins and freezers for residents to collect materials for composting.“She is brave, and bold,” Ms. Lerner said. “She had a lot of a clear perspective on the role of a university for young people. She sort of saw it in a big picture. She was certainly a leader.”The Weisses had a piano in their home, and Hannah and Ari took music lessons from Steve Rosicky, a local musician. They both played the ukulele and the guitar, and Ari had recently taken up songwriting. Ari hoped to create a full album; they had three songs mostly finished before Ari left for Costa Rica, Mr. Rosicky said.“He was so special to me,” Mr. Rosicky said. “His songs were so honest and so true.”In Scarsdale, an affluent suburb in Westchester County, just north of New York City, the Westchester Reform Temple learned on Sunday of the deaths of husband and wife Bruce M. Steinberg, 50, and Irene G. Steinberg, 51; and their sons, Zachary J. Steinberg, 19; William A. Steinberg, 18; and Matthew B. Steinberg, 13. Zachary was a student at Johns Hopkins University, and William at the University of Pennsylvania.The family supported a nonprofit organization, Seeds of Peace, that trains prospective leaders from around the world in conflict resolution.Rebecca Gorman, who attended Seeds of Peace camps in Maine with William Steinberg, said his world travels and loving family had given him confidence and wisdom beyond his years, whether navigating conversations among children from countries in conflict or just listening to friends.“Whenever he would speak, it left you with an impression for the rest of the day,” said Ms. Gorman, who is 19. “It’s just hard to accept that more people didn’t get to see what a wonderful young man he was.”Leslie Adelson Lewin, the executive director of Seeds of Peace, said that William had “ambitions for a political career that were formed at Seeds of Peace” and that his mother was especially passionate about the organization because she had a background in social work.The family loved music, and rock ’n’ roll was the theme of a surprise birthday party the family gave for Bruce, who turned 50 on Nov. 30. Their youngest son, who was in the eighth grade, was an accomplished musician known for his singing.“They were an incredibly tight-knit family who just loved to explore, loved to live life,” said Paul Rubin, a family friend. “They traveled extensively, but also gave their time extensively.”The 10th passenger on the plane was Amanda R. Geissler, 33, who was in her first year as a guide for Backroads, which has provided “active travel” experiences in Costa Rica for more than 25 years. Her LinkedIn profile said she was based in Salt Lake City and had received undergraduate and M.B.A. degrees from the University of Wisconsin.“Amanda’s passion and ability to genuinely connect with people, in addition to her leadership, made her a rising star at Backroads,” the company said in a statement on Monday.The names of the crew members have not been formally released, but Laura Chinchilla, a former president of Costa Rica, said her cousin Juan Manuel Retana was the pilot.It was too soon to tell whether the crash would affect the tourism boom in Costa Rica, which has long enjoyed a reputation as one of the most peaceful countries in Latin America — it has no standing army — and as a place endowed with exceptional biodiversity. The tiny Central American nation of 4.8 million received nearly three million visitors in 2016, a record for the country.It was the second crash in four months to involve Nature Air, which bills itself as an eco-conscious carrier that purchases offsets to compensate for its carbon emissions.The earlier crash, on Sept. 5, killed a Costa Rican woman and an American man. Four other people survived that crash, which remains under investigation.Enio Cubillo Araya, the director general of Costa Rica’s civil aviation agency, said in a phone interview that the two crashes appeared to have been isolated episodes and not symptomatic of a deeper problem. Nature Air, founded in 1990, did not respond to phone and email messages requesting comment.“The country and the aviation industry are in mourning,” Mr. Cubillo said. “The government of Costa Rica stands in solidarity with the relatives of those who lost their loved ones during this holiday.”He said that investigators did not yet know the cause of the crash but that early theories include mechanical malfunction, human error and the possibility that a raft of wind, common in the area this time of year, may have destabilized the small plane. Weather and visibility were ideal, he added.Idier Porras Guzmán, 51, who lives in a tiny hamlet by the beach near Nandayure, on the country’s northwest coast, said he and his relatives had been celebrating New Year’s Eve when they were startled by a plane flying unusually low overhead.“We all noticed it was too low,” he said in a phone interview on Monday. “We said, ‘How weird,’ and then three or four seconds later, we heard a loud thud.”Mr. Porras said he and others staying with him had run toward the sound of the explosion, about 1,000 feet from their modest rental houses. The plane crashed in a hilly area planted with teak, he said.“When we got to the site, the plane was consumed by flames,” said Mr. Porras, who first shared his account with the Costa Rican newspaper La Nación. “It was totally disintegrated. Only part of the tail was visible.”When it comes to artificial intelligence and jobs, the prognostications are grim. The conventional wisdom is that A.I. might soon put millions of people out of work — that it stands poised to do to clerical and white collar workers over the next two decades what mechanization did to factory workers over the past two. And that is to say nothing of the truckers and taxi drivers who will find themselves unemployed or underemployed as self-driving cars take over our roads.But it’s time we start thinking about A.I.’s potential benefits for society as well as its drawbacks. The big-data and A.I. revolutions could also help fight poverty and promote economic stability.Poverty, of course, is a multifaceted phenomenon. But the condition of poverty often entails one or more of these realities: a lack of income (joblessness); a lack of preparedness (education); and a dependency on government services (welfare). A.I. can address all three.First, even as A.I. threatens to put people out of work, it can simultaneously be used to match them to good middle-class jobs that are going unfilled. Today there are millions of such jobs in the United States. This is precisely the kind of matching problem at which A.I. excels. Likewise, A.I. can predict where the job openings of tomorrow will lie, and which skills and training will be needed for them.Historically we have tended to shy away from this kind of social planning and job matching, perhaps because it smacks to us of a command economy. No one, however, is suggesting that the government should force workers to train for and accept particular jobs — or indeed that identifying these jobs and skills gaps needs to be the work of the government. The point is that we now have the tools to take the guesswork out of which jobs are available and which skills workers need to fill them.Second, we can bring what is known as differentiated education — based on the idea that students master skills in different ways and at different speeds — to every student in the country. A 2013 study by Indian researchers found that nearly 40 percent of medical students held a strong preference for one mode of learning: Some were listeners; others were visual learners; still others learned best by doing.Our school system effectively assumes precisely the opposite. We bundle students into a room, use the same method of instruction and hope for the best. A.I. can improve this state of affairs. Even within the context of a standardized curriculum, A.I. “tutors” can home in on and correct for each student’s weaknesses, adapt coursework to his or her learning style and keep the student engaged.Today’s dominant type of A.I., also known as machine learning, permits computer programs to become more accurate — to learn, if you will — as they absorb data and correlate it with known examples from other data sets. In this way, the A.I. “tutor” becomes increasingly effective at matching a student’s needs as it spends more time seeing what works to improve performance.Third, a concerted effort to drag education and job training and matching into the 21st century ought to remove the reliance of a substantial portion of the population on government programs designed to assist struggling Americans. With 21st-century technology, we could plausibly reduce the use of government assistance services to levels where they serve the function for which they were originally intended.Big data sets can now be harnessed to better predict which programs help certain people at a given time and to quickly assess whether programs are having the desired effect. To use an advertising analogy, this would be the difference between placing a commercial on prime-time television and doing so through micro-targeted analytics. Guess which one is cheaper and better able to reach the target population?As for the poisonous effect of ideology on the debate over public assistance: Big data promises something closer to an unbiased, ideology-free evaluation of the effectiveness of these social programs. We could come closer to the vision of a meritocratic, technocratic society that politicians from both parties at state and local levels — those closest to the practical problems their constituents face — have begun to embrace.Even Congress occasionally wakes up from its partisan slumber to advance the cause of technology in public policy decision-making: In 2016, Congress voted for and President Barack Obama authorized the creation of the Commission on Evidence-Based Policy Making. The act creating the commission was sponsored by Senator Patty Murray, a Democrat, and Paul Ryan, the House speaker. Before the commission expired in September 2017, it used government data to evaluate the effectiveness of government policy and made recommendations based on its findings.This provides one more indication of the promise of A.I. and big data in the service of positive, purposeful public good. Before we dismiss these new technologies as nothing more than agents of chaos and disruption, we ought to consider their potential to work to society’s advantage.JERUSALEM — An emboldened Israeli right wing is moving quickly in the new year to make it far more difficult to create a Palestinian state, signaling its intention to doom hopes for a two-state solution to the conflict.The actions have come on multiple fronts, as Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s party for the first time has urged the annexation of Jewish settlements in the West Bank, and the nation’s top legal officers pressed to extend Israeli law into occupied territory.In addition, the Israeli Parliament, after a late-night debate, voted early Tuesday to enact stiff new obstacles to any potential land-for-peace deal involving Jerusalem, while abandoning at the last minute a measure that would have eased the way to rid the city of several overwhelmingly Palestinian neighborhoods.Coming on the heels of President Trump’s recognition of Jerusalem as Israel’s capital in defiance of decades-old United States policy and international consensus, the moves showed that the Israeli right senses a new opening to pursue its goal of a single state from the Jordan River to the Mediterranean.“We are telling the world that it doesn’t matter what the nations of the world say,” Public Security Minister Gilad Erdan told more than 1,000 members of Likud’s central committee on Sunday. “The time has come to express our biblical right to the land.”But Palestinians and Israeli supporters of a two-state solution said the moves revealed the true colors of the country’s ascendant right wing.“We hope that this vote serves as a reminder for the international community that the Israeli government, with the full support of the U.S. administration, is not interested in a just and lasting peace,” Mahmoud Abbas, president of the Palestinian Authority, said Monday, adding that he would respond by revisiting the authority’s existing agreements with Israel. “Rather, its main goal is the consolidation of an apartheid regime in all of historic Palestine.”Daniel Seidemann, director of Terrestrial Jerusalem, which focuses on the Holy City’s fate in a potential two-state solution, said that “what was winked and nodded about before is now being acknowledged publicly: ‘We have no intent of sharing this land with anybody else except as a barely tolerated minority.’”Mr. Netanyahu has publicly said that he supports a two-state solution even as his government has expanded settlements on the occupied West Bank. But Mr. Trump’s support has tilted the scales, leading members of Mr. Netanyahu’s government to conclude that Israel can take a stronger position without fear of forceful foreign intercession.“The map of external pressures has changed dramatically,” said Menachem Klein, a political scientist at Bar-Ilan University. “Instead of Obama, we have Trump. The European Union is divided, Brexit occupies the British agenda, Germany has coalition problems. There’s no consensus in Europe, no single policy putting pressure on Israel. So this is a very easy arena in which we can go ahead.”At the same time, corruption investigations into Mr. Netanyahu and his advisers have weakened him politically and led to speculation that he could be indicted. That has spurred ambitious members of his party, and of his governing coalition, to behave as though 2018 were an election year, staking out positions intended to appeal to their base. The next parliamentary elections are not due until November 2019, but they could come sooner if the government were to fall.“I don’t discount that people are saying, ‘Maybe we can get away with more now because nobody in the international community seems to care,’” said Shalom Lipner, an analyst at the Brookings Institution who was an aide to several prime ministers. “But the more impactful motivating factor seems to be politics. There’s a certain amount of blood in the water right now, and everybody’s smelling it.”Arguably the most provocative, though least substantive, of the flurry of Israeli actions was a nonbinding but unanimous vote on Sunday by the central committee of Mr. Netanyahu’s party, Likud, to support the “free construction and application of Israeli law and sovereignty in all liberated areas of settlement” in the West Bank.If such a measure became law, it would effectively annex Israeli settlements on land that the Palestinians demand for a future state and leave them with an archipelago of disconnected territory. The West Bank is now under military jurisdiction, though settlers are subject to civilian law, as Israeli citizens.Mr. Netanyahu, who at the height of his political powers could have been expected to quash the vote, was not present for it. But most of the Likud ministers in his government endorsed the proposal, which was roughly equivalent to the adoption of a plank in a party platform. Party leaders acknowledged that Mr. Trump’s hard-line support of Israel had created an urgency to seize the moment.Even as Likud met near Ben Gurion Airport, Israel’s attorney general, Avichai Mandelblit, published a new formal instruction to all government offices on Sunday, as part of an agreement with the Justice Ministry, that any new legislation explicitly state how it should be applied on the West Bank, or else the responsible government agency must say why it should not apply there.Justice Minister Ayelet Shaked played down the instruction, telling Kan Radio that it would speed the application of Israeli law to areas where settlers live, which now sometimes takes years, she said, because it must first be adopted by the military commander, who lays down the laws of the occupation. “What we did is an attempt to decrease the gap between Judea and Samaria and Israel,” Ms. Shaked said.But opponents of the occupation said the little-noticed bureaucratic move had great significance. “The Knesset cannot pass laws that are valid in Japan,” said Hagit Ofran, an advocate at Peace Now, a leftist group that opposes settlements, referring to the Israeli Parliament. “You can only legislate in places that you have jurisdiction. And if they claim jurisdiction over occupied territories, it means they’re annexed.”Mr. Seidemann, of Terrestrial Jerusalem, said that measures applying Israeli law to Israelis living in the occupied territories would formally set up a democratic system for Israelis while leaving Palestinians subject to military rule.“That narrows the comfort zone between Israel and the a-word rather dramatically,” he said, referring to apartheid.If Mr. Trump’s recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel spurred efforts to entrench the country’s West Bank settlements, the Parliament’s approval of a bill early Tuesday will make it far more difficult to cede parts of the Holy City to the Palestinians, who want East Jerusalem as the capital of a future state.The bill that was debated, an amendment to the basic law on Jerusalem — the closest thing in Israel to a constitutional amendment — contained two elements that supporters of a two-state solution called pernicious.One, which passed around 3 a.m. after hours of protests by the opposition, raises the legislative bar to ceding any part of Jerusalem to a foreign entity. Until now, a peace deal that gave up any part of the city could have been ratified either with a supermajority in Parliament, or with a simple majority and a national referendum. Under the new law, it may be ratified only with a supermajority, or 80 of 120 votes.“This is the current right-wing ideological majority shackling the future,” Mr. Seidemann said. The law itself, however, could be reversed, by a simple majority vote in Parliament.The other effect, and the more significant one in the short term, would have cleared away potential legal obstacles to redrawing the municipal boundaries of Jerusalem. Some of Mr. Netanyahu’s allies have sought this power to remove Palestinian neighborhoods from the city, enhancing the Jewish majority in municipal elections.Proponents had in mind several fast-growing Palestinian neighborhoods, like Kufr Aqab and the Shuafat refugee camp, that are within the city limits but outside the security barrier that Israel built to prevent terrorist attacks. Largely denied city services because of concerns about the safety of municipal workers, those areas have become boomtowns of unregulated construction by Palestinians seeking affordable housing.Those neighborhoods now include perhaps as many as 100,000 Palestinians who can vote in city elections. A chief sponsor of the bill, Ze’ev Elkin, the minister of Jerusalem affairs, told The Jerusalem Post recently, “We are facing a ticking demographic time bomb” in those neighborhoods.“What it actually means is the establishment of the first Bantustans of Israel,” said Ms. Ofran of Peace Now. “Like in South Africa — they said, ‘They have their own townships, they run independently, run their own services,’ while having actually zero resources to do that. We have Jerusalem, a poor city but with huge capacities, a huge budget, the national government’s help, and now you’re telling us that if you throw them away, they can do by themselves.“It’s a lie,” she added. “It’s doing exactly what they had in the apartheid regime.”In a surprising twist, however, the leader of the right-wing Jewish Home party, Naftali Bennett, insisted that the municipal-boundaries language be dropped from the bill, saying that making changes to the city’s borders was at odds with the idea of Jerusalem as Israel’s “undivided” capital.“People tried in the past to partition Jerusalem,” Mr. Bennett said. “It is not within the authority of any Jew, of any Jewish body, or the entire Jewish people, to give up any part of the land.”Aviv Tatarsky, a researcher for Ir Amim, a Jerusalem advocacy group that lobbied against the bill, welcomed Mr. Bennett’s change of heart after waking up to learn of it. “We will send him flowers and say thank you,” Mr. Tatarsky said.WORCESTER, Mass. — With Democratic control of Congress after 2018 increasingly plausible, those who most intensely seek the impeachment of President Trump are organizing, agitating — and conducting a veritable clinic in how not to exercise one of the Constitution’s most solemn powers.Investigations are still underway, but 58 House Democrats have already voted to consider impeaching Mr. Trump. Tom Steyer, a Democratic megadonor, is running a multipronged campaign calling for Mr. Trump’s impeachment on grounds ranging from his North Korea policy to allegations of obstruction of justice.It is true that impeachment is a political rather than a criminal device, but not like this. It requires the kind of political judgment concerned with the public good, not with gaining electoral advantage. The prudent path forward lies somewhere between “fiat justitia, ruat caelum” and “Vox populi, vox Dei” — “let justice be done though the heavens fall” on one hand and “the voice of the people is the voice of God” on the other.Mr. Trump may well have committed impeachable offenses. Many presidents have. The nature of the office, whose governing rules cannot speak to every exigency, inevitably requires risking oneself in the manner Thomas Jefferson described: “An officer is bound to obey orders; yet he would be a bad one who should do it in cases for which they were not intended, and which involved the most important consequences.”That an offense is impeachable does not mean it warrants impeachment. Congress must account for both the context of the offense and the general political context of the times — such as the potential public reaction to impeachment — which a popular stampede discourages.If Mr. Trump’s actions merit impeachment, the most important task will be persuading many of the considerable number of Americans whose support for the president is apparently immovable to view his removal as necessary for the public good rather than as a coup d’état.Republicans who are scurrying to denounce and delegitimize investigations into Mr. Trump — inquiries that are not yet complete — threaten the converse result: If Mr. Trump is exonerated, those who sought his downfall will be able to say it was the product of political interference.Just as these efforts will give cover to those who have already reached conclusions hostile to Mr. Trump, the current campaign to incite impeachment will make it plausible for his staunch defenders to say any future effort is illegitimate, even if it arises from sober processes. The campaign atmosphere surrounding the calls for impeachment feeds directly into Mr. Trump’s claim that he came to slay the establishment beast, and the beast responded by seeking to destroy him. The taint on an impeachment arising from such a process would be inescapable.The idea of a campaign-style drive for impeachment is also hostile to our constitutional design, which does not require a criminal offense to impeach a president but does feature the trappings of a criminal prosecution. The purpose of those trappings is not simply to protect the rights of the accused but also to establish the process’ legitimacy in the public eye.It mistakes the political nature of impeachment to make it simply susceptible to ordinary political forces. Immediately after declaring impeachment’s availability for political offenses, Alexander Hamilton’s Federalist 65 warns that the “prosecution” of impeachments, “for this reason, will seldom fail to agitate the passions of the whole community, and to divide it into parties more or less friendly or inimical to the accused.”The constitutional architecture of impeachment is supposed to slow the rush to judgment that might result from these passions. Hamilton called impeachment “a method of national inquest into the conduct of public men,” and the analogy indicates the gravity of the undertaking.The House is designed to be the most direct representative of the people in this regard. If the people want the president impeached, the House will eventually do so. But “eventually” is the key: That body is also designed to register the people’s intense and sustained views without being captive to passing whims.The Senate is supposed to operate at a greater constitutional distance. That is becoming a challenge as the velocity of communications reduces the separation of senators from public opinion and as the House — with the polarization and partisanship it now reflects — becomes a primary feeder to the Senate.All this heightens the demands on those who would participate in a process of impeachment to do so with the sobriety a national inquest requires. It remains unclear both whether Mr. Trump has committed impeachable offenses and whether, if he has, impeachment is a prudent political remedy. What is clear is the imperative for Congress to treat the exploration of those questions with a gravity that will reconcile the public, including Mr. Trump’s base and his most intense critics, to the answers.Dear Diary:It was the 1990s, and I was doing stand-up comedy.I left the Comic Strip late one night and headed home. When I got to my block, I realized that I had forgotten to buy cat food. I saw that a store was open and went in to buy a box of Tender Vittles.As I walked out, I saw a man standing alone looking at the fruit. As I got closer, I realized who he was.“You’re Bill Murray,” I said.He looked over and smiled, but he didn’t say anything.“I’m a big fan and I do stand-up,” I added.“You do?” he said.I nodded.He grabbed the shopping bag I was holding, looked inside and saw the cat food.“I see you’re doing well.”The Rangers and Henrik Lundqvist came into Monday’s Winter Classic unbeaten in outdoor games — and despite below freezing temperatures and a gritty performance by the last-place Buffalo Sabres, the Rangers prevailed again.The temperature was 20.5 degrees at Citi Field for the opening face-off at 1:27 p.m. with Lundqvist bathed in sunlight in front of a sellout crowd of 41,821. J.T. Miller scored in overtime a little after 4 p.m. to give the Rangers a 3-2 win as the freeze deepened.“You don’t play that many times outside — so obviously every game means a lot to you, you want to make the most of it,” said Lundqvist, now a perfect 4-0-0 in outdoor games. “You want to make sure you can be able to sit down in a week or this summer or look back at this as a great memory. So you need to win. And we did.”Paul Carey and Michael Grabner scored first-period goals, and Lundqvist made 31 saves.Miller’s goal came on the power play 2 minutes 43 seconds into overtime — on the first-base side of the field. Lundqvist raced the length of the ice to mob his teammates as the frozen crowd bounced with exultation and likely relief knowing they would finally be out of the cold.“There were some real good plays on both sides, a lot of compete,” Rangers Coach Alain Vigneault said. “So typical N.H.L. Tight and right until the end.”Near where David Wright patrolled third base for the Mets, Carey opened the scoring with his fifth goal of the season at 4:09 into the first period.Although it was technically a home game for the Sabres, most of the crowd was in Rangers blue, and they rose and roared when the puck went past Buffalo goalie Robin Lehner.Grabner, who played for the Islanders against the Rangers in a game at Yankee Stadium four years ago, scored his team-leading 18th goal at 8:20 to give the Rangers a 2-0 lead.The Rangers even had the early upper hand on their bench, which was in full sunlight late in the first while the Sabres bench was already enveloped in chilly shade.Buffalo’s Sam Reinhart scored 56 seconds into the second period to narrow the deficit, and Rasmus Ristolainen tied the game at the 27-second mark of the third.The Rangers won their previous Winter Classic appearance — 3-2 over the Flyers in 2012 at Citizens Bank Ballpark in Philadelphia — and also defeated the Devils, 7-3, and the Islanders, 2-1, at Yankee Stadium in January 2014.With the victory, Lundqvist also tied Tony Esposito for eighth place on the career wins list with 423.But clearly, a fresh open-air victory had extra zest for the 35-year-old goalie who is playing his 13th season for the Rangers.“I could easily play one every year,” Lundqvist said. “To get this opportunity, in front of so many people and the excitement around the game, it doesn’t get old to me.”Calestous Juma, a prominent global advocate for sustainable development in struggling countries, particularly in his native Africa, could trace his passion for technological innovation to his arduous childhood in colonial Kenya.One of 14 children, most of whom died of malaria, he grew up on the shore of Lake Victoria in a remote village of mud huts without electricity or running water. The nearest post office was 20 miles away. Flooding was common.“The family kept getting pushed out of their home and then trying to go back,” his wife, Alison Field-Juma, said. “So there was this sort of constant change in his environment. It was also incredibly challenging. They were forced to innovate. Both his parents were real innovators. I think that’s where that spirit comes from.”His father, a carpenter, introduced cassava, a starchy root native to South America, to give villagers a more reliable food supply. His mother became an entrepreneur, selling goods at marketplaces so that she could help pay for her son’s schooling.That schooling led him ultimately to Harvard, where he became a professor of international development at the Kennedy School and directed the Agricultural Innovation in Africa project at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs.He also became the first director of the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity and the founder of the African Center for Technology Studies in Nairobi, Kenya, a pioneering group that married government policy with science and technology to spur sustainable development and foster distinctly African perspectives on science.Professor Juma died on Dec. 15 at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 64. His wife said the cause was cancer. At his death he was widely credited as having been an important force in ensuring that biotechnology would play a critical role in improving economic life in many developing countries, especially in sub-Saharan Africa.“Calestous understood that people often resist the changes that come with innovation, and that overcoming this resistance can be very important in enabling societies to move ahead,” said Douglas W. Elmendorf, dean of the Kennedy School. “So he tried to understand why people resist innovation, and what can be done to make them feel comfortable with change.”Professor Juma’s latest book, “Innovation and Its Enemies” (2016), described how technological change is often greeted with public skepticism. Beneath such opposition, he argued, is the belief that only a small segment of society will benefit from potential progress, while the much broader society bears the greatest risk.Successful policymaking must take into account people’s feelings, he believed. When Professor Juma helped design a stove for use in developing countries, its metallic cylinder was replaced with a clay lining to improve efficiency. But the prototype caused less smoke — attracting more mosquitoes — and villagers worried that metal workers could lose their jobs. A later model used metal and clay.“Ultimately, all development is experimental; no one knows what they are doing,” Professor Juma said with a laugh in 2014. “Africans need the chance to experiment as well. They will make mistakes, but they can learn from them, too.”Professor Juma could be lighthearted in the classroom or in public in order to make his points. With more than 100,000 followers on Twitter, he shared with them cartoons that teased skeptics of science and innovation. One of his last posts featured a game show called “Facts Don’t Matter.” In it, a contestant is told: “I’m sorry, Jeannie, your answer was correct, but Kevin shouted his incorrect answer over yours, so he gets the points.”“Calestous was very serious about getting his work right, but he was not serious about himself,” Mr. Elmendorf said. “He shared his enjoyment of the research and teaching, though he was working on life-or-death issues for many people. He was incredibly optimistic.”Professor Juma was born to John Kwada Juma and Clementina Nabwire Juma in the village of Busia, in western Kenya, on June 9, 1953. He grew up nearby in Port Victoria.“Port Victoria was as remote as it gets — a small fishing village on Lake Victoria at Kenya’s westernmost point,” said Ken Kobe, who taught Professor Juma while serving as a Peace Corps volunteer there in 1969-70.After graduating from Egoji Teachers’ Training College in central Kenya in 1974, Professor Juma became a science teacher in Mombasa, a port city on the Indian Ocean. He went on to write so many letters to the editor of the Nairobi-based newspaper The Daily Nation that it hired him in 1978 to be its first full-time science and environment correspondent.Wangari Maathai, the environmentalist who became the first African woman to win a Nobel Peace Prize, hired Professor Juma to work at a nonprofit in Nairobi. Encouraged by Ms. Maathai, he won a scholarship and earned a doctorate in science and technology policy studies in 1987 from the University of Sussex in England.He met his wife, who also works in sustainable development, at a conference in Montreal. They married in 1987 and moved to Kenya.Professor Juma experienced two major ecological disruptions in his childhood, Ms. Field-Juma said. One was the introduction of Nile perch to Lake Victoria to help the fishing industry. Though it did benefit the area economically for a time, it also contributed to the depletion, to near-extinction, of stocks of many other types of fish in the lake.The second change was the British colonial government’s deforestation of much of the Port Victoria region, which dried out what had been a wet and fertile area. “The microclimate of that region was irreversibly changed,” Ms. Field-Juma said.On his return to Kenya with his wife, he sought a scientific solution to the agricultural crisis.“I started to run into all the people who had collected seeds of fruits and vegetables, mostly fruits, that had disappeared,” he said in an interview in 2003. “And some of them explained to me that those fruits have disappeared because the area had dried up. And they would pose this question to me: ‘You scientists, are you able to grow these fruits in places where there is less water?’ ”Professor Juma recognized the potential of genetic modification to address such issues and to help solve Africa’s broader agricultural problems, distilling his thinking in the 1989 book “The Gene Hunters.”The book helped pave the way for the Convention on Biological Diversity, a United Nations treaty signed by more than 150 governments in 1992 to protect the survival of diverse species and ecosystems.Besides his wife, he is survived by his son, Eric, and his sister, Roselyda Nanjala.Until he was hospitalized, Professor Juma had planned to host about 20 international students for Thanksgiving in Cambridge. Instead, he joined them from the hospital by Skype, sharing stories and discussing development with them.“It was just what he wanted,” Ms. Field-Juma said, “and he wasn’t even there.”WASHINGTON — A wave of optimism has swept over American business leaders, and it is beginning to translate into the sort of investment in new plants, equipment and factory upgrades that bolsters economic growth, spurs job creation — and may finally raise wages significantly.While business leaders are eager for the tax cuts that take effect this year, the newfound confidence was initially inspired by the Trump administration’s regulatory pullback, not so much because deregulation is saving companies money but because the administration has instilled a faith in business executives that new regulations are not coming.“It’s an overall sense that you’re not going to face any new regulatory fights,” said Granger MacDonald, a home builder in Kerrville, Tex. “We’re not spending more, which is the main thing. We’re not seeing any savings, but we’re not seeing any increases.”The applause from top executives has been largely reserved for the administration’s economic policy agenda. Many chief executives have been publicly critical of President Trump’s approach to social and cultural issues, including his response to a white nationalist march over the summer in Charlottesville, Va., that turned deadly and his decision to withdraw from the Paris climate accord. Two of the business advisory councils that Mr. Trump assembled in the nascent days of his presidency disbanded after executives grew concerned about his public remarks on the violence in Charlottesville.There is little historical evidence tying regulation levels to growth. Regulatory proponents say, in fact, that those rules can have positive economic effects in the long run, saving companies from violations that could cost them both financially and reputationally. Cost-benefit analyses generally do not look just at the impact of a regulation on a particular business’s bottom line in the coming months, but at the broader impact on consumers, the environment, public health and other factors that can show up over years or decades.But in the administration and across the business community, there is a perception that years of increased environmental, financial and other regulatory oversight by the Obama administration dampened investment and job creation — and that Mr. Trump’s more hands-off approach has unleashed the “animal spirits” of companies that had hoarded cash after the recession of 2008.Some businesses will essentially be able to get away with shortcuts that they could not have under a continuation of Obama-era policies. The coal industry, for instance, will not have to worry about a regulation, overturned by Congress and Mr. Trump, that would have protected streams from mining runoff.Brett Hartl, the government affairs director at the Center for Biological Diversity, said the Trump administration might avoid big-splash regulatory rollbacks this year and instead would make it harder for federal agencies to block business expansion.“It’s not going to be sexy things like ‘We’re killing the Clean Power Plan,’” Mr. Hartl said, referring to the Obama-era rule aimed at curbing greenhouse gas emissions from coal-fired power plants. “But you can make it systematically harder for an agency to do the right thing.”Only a handful of the federal government’s reams of rules have actually been killed or slated for elimination since Mr. Trump took office. But the president has declared that rolling back regulations will be a defining theme of his presidency. On his 11th day in office, Mr. Trump signed an executive order “on reducing regulation and controlling regulatory costs,” including the stipulation that any new regulation must be offset by two regulations rolled back.That intention and its rhetorical and regulatory follow-ons have executives at large and small companies celebrating. And with tax cuts coming and a generally improving economic outlook, both domestically and internationally, economists are revising growth forecasts upward for last year and this year.Even before it became clear that Republicans would pass a major tax cut, capital spending had risen significantly, climbing at an annualized rate of 6.2 percent during the first three quarters of last year. Surveys of planned spending also show increases.Mr. Trump bragged in a news conference last month that he has rolled back 22 regulations for every new one — 67 deregulatory actions, versus three new regulations. Often in conjunction with the Republican Congress, his administration has canceled several rules approved at the end of the President Barack Obama’s term, including a regulation on limiting mining debris in streams, a requirement that broadband providers obtain permission from customers to collect and use online information, and a ban on plastic bottles in national parks.Administration officials said last month that, since January 2017, federal agencies have delayed, withdrawn or made inactive nearly 1,600 planned regulatory actions. Further rollbacks will affect financial services as well as energy and labor rules, among others.And Mr. Trump has appointed outspoken critics of regulation to lead several federal agencies, including the Environmental Protection Agency and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.The evidence is weak that regulation actually reduces economic activity or that deregulation stimulates it. But business executives are largely convinced that the cost of complying with rules diverts money that could be invested elsewhere. And economists see a plausible connection between Mr. Trump’s determination to prune the federal rule book and the willingness of businesses to crank open their vaults. Measures of business confidence have climbed to record heights during Mr. Trump’s first year.“The notion that deregulation unleashes growth is virtually impossible to find in the data,” said Jared Bernstein, a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities who served as the chief economic adviser to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. “What does matter is this idea that confidence matters. If their expectations about the future are positive, then it does make a difference.”Businesses acknowledge that the most important reason for their increased optimism is the simple fact that the domestic economy continues to expand, with few clouds on the horizon.Better yet, the world’s major economies all are growing for the first time since the financial crisis. Confidence among European manufacturers hit a high in more than a decade, according to European Commission data that goes back to 1985, even without tax cuts or less regulation.In Japan, now in the middle of its longest period of growth since the early 1990s, the central bank said corporate investment was exceeding its expectations, and it raised its forecast.“The fundamental backdrop here is that this is a global synchronized expansion lifting everyone’s spirits, from Tokyo to New York,” said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody’s Analytics in West Chester, Pa. “The entire global economy is on one page for the first time in over a decade. We’re all moving in sync and that has everyone feeling good, not just here but across the globe.”The low unemployment in the United States may also be prompting increased spending, just as it did in the 1990s, as corporations invest in technology to make workers more productive, or replace them entirely. Wendy’s is adding self-service kiosks at 1,000 restaurants.But business executives say the Trump administration deserves credit. Mr. MacDonald said home builders have benefited from the killing of regulations written by the Obama administration, including a rule that broadened the definition of wetlands, which could have restricted home building in certain areas. The National Labor Relations Board also reversed a decision that made builders more responsible for the working conditions of their contractors’ employees.In some industries, the administration’s actions will allow companies to engage in activities they might not have been able to otherwise; electric utilities, for example, might be able to invest in upgrading power plants that run on fossil fuels, thanks to a promised rollback of Mr. Obama’s Clean Power Plan to fight climate change.The Business Roundtable, a corporate lobbying group in Washington, reported last month that “regulatory costs” were no longer the top concern of American executives, for the first time in six years. Mr. Zandi said that regulation was still the top concern in Moody’s survey of business confidence, but that it was rapidly losing ground to concerns about the availability of labor.The National Association of Manufacturers’ fourth-quarter member survey found that fewer than half of manufacturers cited an “unfavorable business climate” — including regulations and taxes — as a challenge to their business, down from nearly three-quarters a year ago.Some industries have seen particularly clear changes in fortune. The Trump administration has reversed a number of environmental protections that would have imposed significant costs on energy companies. Mr. Trump’s appointees to the Federal Communications Commission voted last month to repeal so-called net neutrality rules, which treated internet services as a regulated industry, like power lines, and prohibited broadband providers from charging for faster internet service or from blocking or slowing some websites.That decision helped prompt Comcast to announce that it would invest more than $50 billion in infrastructure over the next five years.The banking industry, in particular, has been buoyed by a relaxed approach to financial regulation as the Trump administration moves to ease many of the postcrisis rules put in place to prevent another financial meltdown. The Treasury Department has issued a series of reports calling for sweeping changes to rules required under the 2010 Dodd-Frank law, and a council set up to designate firms that pose risks to the financial system is in the process of removing those companies from heightened federal oversight.Mr. Trump has also installed individuals who have publicly questioned the need for many of the postcrisis rules in major policy roles, including at the Federal Reserve and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Bank stocks have been on a winning streak and ended 2017 up more than 15 percent, according to the KBW Nasdaq Bank Index.“There has been some regulatory fixes for a lot of industries, and they would tell you that matters a lot,” said Jamie Dimon, the chairman of JPMorgan Chase, who also leads the Business Roundtable. “It’s just hard to do a direct correlation. It doesn’t mean it isn’t real.”The confidence is translating to industries that have not, as of yet, seen any obvious benefit or policy changes.“We have spent the past dozen years or longer operating in environments that have had an increasing regulatory burden,” said Michael S. Burke, the chairman and chief executive of Aecom, a Los Angeles-based multinational consulting firm that specializes in infrastructure projects. “That burden has slowed down economic growth, it’s slowed down investment in infrastructure. And what we’ve seen over the last year is a big deregulatory environment.”Mr. Burke said he expected the actions to speed future projects for his company, though he declined to offer details, citing competitive risks.The White House sees its efforts as having their intended effect. Mr. Trump boasted about his deregulatory efforts last month at an event where he stood in front of a small mountain of printouts representing the nation’s regulatory burden and ceremonially cut a large piece of “red tape.”The chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, Kevin Hassett, said in an interview that the administration’s freeze on new regulations, in particular, appeared to have buoyed confidence. Though he cautioned that it could take years of research to pin down the magnitude of the effects, he said deregulation was “the most plausible story” to explain why economic growth in 2017 had outstripped most forecasts.“Our view is, the ‘no new regulations’ piece has to be more powerful than we thought,” he said.BEIRUT, Lebanon — Some of the best stories are like treasures from the flea market: You find them while rummaging around, looking for something else.That’s what happened to me and my colleagues recently, when we broke a story about Saudi Arabia floating ideas for a Trump-backed Mideast peace plan that Palestinians found astonishing and unacceptable, and included rejecting their longstanding desire for a capital in East Jerusalem. It was published a few days before President Trump broke with half a century of United States policy and recognized Jerusalem as Israel’s capital. Our report has been bolstered by the work of other journalists at Reuters and elsewhere. Palestinian leaders recently declared they will not accept any peace plan from the United States.We came across that scoop while on the trail of another story that seemed, at first, unrelated: a behind-the-scenes look at the Lebanese prime minister’s strange days marooned in Saudi Arabia.On the circuitous route to landing both stories, there were many stops and detours. We listened to a Palestinian militant sharing his anxiety about instability in the United States, and my children debating with their friends about the likelihood of war in Lebanon, where we live. We were invited to a family barbecue and a Saudi camel festival.It all started in late November, when, like every journalist in Lebanon, we were digging to find out what, precisely, had just happened to the prime minister, Saad Hariri. The basics were not in question: He had abruptly flown to Saudi Arabia and resigned; officials came to realize he was being coerced; and after a diplomatic scramble, he flew home and declared he was not quitting after all. He wanted what happened in Saudi Arabia to stay in Saudi Arabia. We, of course, did not.One Lebanese official compared his task, and ours, to examining the black box: We knew the had plane crashed, but we wanted to know how and why. We eventually told the tale here as best we could, with new details like Mr. Hariri being physically manhandled by Saudi security agents.I put out feelers to my contacts, and so did Maria Abi-Habib. Maria is an old friend, but a new colleague, just hired from The Wall Street Journal’s Beirut bureau. She is headed to The Times’s Delhi bureau, but has not moved yet. So now, instead of competing, we combined our sources. That was how one story led to another.From the start, the Hariri story opened new doors. One reason we rarely write about Lebanese politics is that many officials here stand on great ceremony: Despite wielding diluted power in a deadlocked government in a tiny state, they require long preparations and faxed questions before the simplest interview. This time, though, they kept telling us to come right over. They wanted to dish.It was Maria who got the most tantalizing early tip. But it was a confusing one. She went to see a senior Lebanese official who, instead of talking about Mr. Hariri, began a tale about the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, and his recent trip to the Saudi capital, Riyadh. Maria looked so confused that the official paused to make sure she recognized Mr. Abbas’s name.Mr. Abbas, the official explained, had called Lebanese officials in alarm after his trip. He had learned, the official said, that the Saudis planned to further destabilize Lebanon: They wanted jihadist splinter groups in Lebanon’s volatile, vulnerable Palestinian refugee camps to take up arms against Hezbollah, the Shiite militia backed by Saudi Arabia’s rival Iran. Hezbollah happens to be the most powerful party in Lebanon’s government.It sounded crazy. But then again, so did one country effectively arresting another nation’s leader.So it was my turn to check with contacts. One, the Lebanon representative of a Palestinian militant faction, met me and my colleague Hwaida Saad in his unmarked office above a day care center. He is a jovial talker who likes to meet informally — over Lebanese manaeesh, flatbreads with thyme or cheese — but this time he was in a crisp suit, with two aides taking notes.The refugee camp plans were real, he said. His group became concerned after hearing that a Lebanese politician close to Saudi Arabia had sent a proposal to jihadists in a Palestinian refugee camp, Ain al-Hilwe. The proposal was to help foment a “Sunni resistance” against Hezbollah — but even the most hotheaded jihadists refused.But all that was nothing, the Palestinian said, compared with what the Saudis had told the Palestinian president about what might be in Mr. Trump’s Middle East peace plan: No East Jerusalem capital, a state mainly in Gaza, with only limited sovereignty in the West Bank, Israeli settlers remaining on occupied land, no right of return...Wait, I asked. So what was in it for the Palestinians? Nothing, he said.Saudi Arabia and the White House denied the accounts, but Lebanese officials and French diplomats confirmed them, and a Palestinian member of Israel’s Parliament said he had heard similar ideas from Americans and Israelis. So we wrote the story.The original tip about Saudi plans to interfere in Lebanon’s Palestinian camps turned out to be complicated. We parsed and synthesized several versions of the account. The Saudis denied it all.In the absence of further clarity, the fears of a plot in the camps turned into just a few paragraphs in our Hariri story, which had plenty of other juicy elements. But that reporting thread led us to something more important: a sea change in parameters for a future Palestinian state that has only begun to shake the region.