Gov. Andrew Cuomo called for unity and said during an inaugural address on Tuesday night that New York should set an example for an increasingly divided America.The 61-year-old Democratic governor spoke from the Registry Room of Ellis Island, where millions of immigrants passed through, after he was sworn in for a third term.The governor noted that the room was a point of entry for his own Italian ancestors, as well as those of Republican leaders including President Trump, Vice President Mike Pence and retired general and statesman Colin Powell.“The promise that attracted 5,000 people a day from across the globe to come to this sacred place through this historic portal on Ellis Island is not a faded memory of yesterday but a shining beacon for a better tomorrow,” Mr. Cuomo said.As other New York Democrats such as former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg and U.S. Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand are traveling the country, considering national bids, Mr. Cuomo has said he is focused on the Empire State.His rhetoric on Tuesday, however, had a national focus.The theme of his inaugural speech was the role of New York in the nation, and his desire for the state to be a beacon of progressive politics.His speech repeated several policy proposals—strengthening abortion rights and legalizing recreational marijuana—first unspooled in remarks two weeks ago in Manhattan, but it didn’t dwell on them.Indeed, the main foil in the speech was the Trump administration. Mr. Cuomo faulted federal policies on immigration and taxation, and the administration for “manipulating and using the fear and deepening the divisions for their own political purpose.”“Like looters during a blackout, they didn’t cause the darkness but they exploited it,” Mr. Cuomo said.“America’s only threat is from within: It is the growing division amongst us.”The continuing federal government shutdown over the Trump administration’s insistence on funding a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border would have closed the Ellis and Liberty Islands to tourists—the sites are managed by the National Park Service—but Mr. Cuomo has directed the state’s economic development authority to pay $65,000 a day to finance their operation.“Let New York say that the federal government may shut itself down but it will never extinguish the Statue of Liberty’s torch, it will never erase the words of her poem, they will never close our harbor, they will never close our hearts, and they will never close this hall of dreamers, they will never disrespect the legacy they left,” Mr. Cuomo said.In addition to Mr. Cuomo, who was sworn in by Court of Appeals Chief Judge Janet DiFiore, three other statewide elected officials—Lt. Gov. Kathy Hochul, Attorney General Letitia James and Comptroller Tom DiNapoli—took the oath of office.State Legislature leaders didn’t travel to the evening event. The audience of just under 1,000 people included U.S. Reps. Hakeem Jeffries, Adriano Espaillat and Jerry Nadler, as well as lobbyists, business and labor leaders and local elected officials.Hank Sheinkopf, a political consultant who has advised the governor, said Mr. Cuomo was aiming for a broader audience, and the immigration themes would resonate both in New York and across the U.S.“It’s a twofer: When you’re fighting for immigrants, you’re at the same time taking on the president,” Mr. Sheinkopf said. “The people that he’s talking to can make their own conclusions from what he’s saying.”Pharmaceutical companies are ringing in the new year by raising the price of hundreds of drugs, with Allergan PLC setting the pace with increases of nearly 10% on more than two dozen products, according to a new analysis.Many companies’ increases are relatively modest this year, amid growing public and political pressure on the industry over prices. Yet a few are particularly high, including on some generics, the cheaper alternative to branded accounting for nine out of 10 prescriptions filled in the U.S. Overall, price increases, including recently restored price increases from Pfizer Inc., continue to exceed inflation.More than three dozen drugmakers raised the prices on hundreds of medicines in the U.S. on Tuesday, according to an analysis from Rx Savings Solutions, which sells software to help employers and health plans choose the least-expensive medicines. The average increase was 6.3%, according to the analysis, including increases on different doses for the same drug.Allergan confirmed the increases cited in the analysis, saying it raised the price of 51 products—27 by about 9.5% and another 24 by about 4.9%. The increases covered more than half of its portfolio, from an extended-release version of its Alzheimer’s drug Namenda to dry-eye treatment Restasis. Of the companies analyzed, Allergan had the most increases of more than 9%.Chief Executive Brent Saunders had announced in 2016 that Allergan would limit itself to one price rise a year on its medicines, and keep those increases under 10% as part of a “social contract” with patients. Allergan said Tuesday that it is “committed to responsible pricing principles” outlined in that pledge. Allergan applied price increases just below 10% on some of its products also at the start of 2017 and 2018.Among generic drugmakers with the largest increases, Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC raised the price of pain drug morphine by 10%, anesthetic ketamine by 20% and blood-pressure medication enalaprilat by 30%.Steve Weiss, a spokesman for Hikma, noted that the increases for the three drugs came to less than $1 per vial, with the morphine price rising by about 20 cents per vial. “These are small increases that enable us to continue operating a sustainable business that serves hospitals, doctors and patient needs for high quality medications,” Mr. Weiss said. He added that the company also lowered the prices of some drugs.Other drugmakers that raised their prices generally issued more-modest increases. GlaxoSmithKline PLC confirmed it raised the prices on 36 drugs, although none exceeded 3%.The company said it remains “committed to providing differentiated, needed medicines and price them according to the value they bring to patients, while being sensitive to the market and societal expectations.”Drug pricing remains a hot topic that is expected to draw increased attention from Democrats when they take control of the House this week. Pharmaceutical companies are under the spotlight over the cost of their drugs, with pressure coming from patients, insurers and the Trump administration.“The reason it can keep happening is there is no market check, no person or entity to bring reason to determining drug prices," said Michael Rea, CEO of Rx Savings Solutions. Clients of the Overland Park, Kan., company include Petco and Blue Cross & Blue Shield of Kansas City.The increases affect “list prices,” which are set by manufacturers, although almost no patient pays these prices because they don’t take into account rebates, discounts and insurance payments. Drugmakers said they raise prices in conjunction with rebates they give to pharmacy benefit managers in order to be placed on formularies.Both parties have called for more disclosure on drug prices, and the Trump administration has proposed requiring that companies include list prices in their television ads. The drug industry has pushed back on that.Umer Raffat, an analyst at Evercore ISI, said the increases this year appear to be modest, similar to the past couple of years, as the industry adjusts to pressures on drug pricing. He said the “magic number” for most list-price increases seems to be 6%.“In general, the industry has started to self-police itself,” he said in an interview. “They heard a lot of the pushback.”Mr. Raffat said that many companies haven’t taken increases in 2019 yet and expected more to come. The start of the year is the traditional time for the industry to set prices.Pfizer has already announced plans for later this month to resume its practice of raising drug prices, increasing the list prices of 41 of its prescription drugs, or 10% of its portfolio. Pfizer rolled back some increases over the summer due to pressure from President Trump.Last year was a trying one for Allergan, as its shares dropped about 30% over the last three months of 2018 amid investor concerns over the performance of the company. It said in May it would explore selling its women’s-health and infectious-disease businesses. It also drew calls from activist investors for changes in management.Restasis, which sold $872 million through the first three quarters of 2018, is expected to face generic competition later this year. Allergan didn’t raise the price of many of its medical aesthetics brands, including blockbuster anti-wrinkle treatment Botox. These products are typically paid out-of-pocket by patients.Allergan said it expects to realize no net increase in prices, as rebates and discounts given to insurers, pharmacy benefit managers and government programs continue to grow. The company said the rebates and discounts are paid to ensure access to its products and help lower patients’ out-of-pocket costs.At a hotel on the outskirts of Cincinnati, members of a closed society dedicated to the highly intelligent gathered for their yearly meeting. On the agenda was a test for fresh aspirants and a discussion of submarine warfare techniques. There were also hours spent playing the game Exploding Kittens and consuming prodigious amounts of alcohol.Despite Mensa’s reputation as a club for brainiacs, some are increasingly worried that discussions of highfalutin subjects are giving way to frivolity such as gaming sessions, cheese samplings and craft beers.“They are wonderful, loving, playful people,” said Chris Harrison, a 38-year-old project manager and opera singer, of the North Texas chapter he joined several years ago. “They also drink more than anyone I’ve ever seen.”Plenty of members are fine with the booze and board games, which have become as much of the seven-decade-old organization’s identity as its difficult admissions exam and the “hug dot” stickers Mensans sport at gatherings to indicate their hugging preference (Green = hug me! Red = don’t hug me! Yellow = ask first).Others, however, grouse that the partying deviates from the group’s mission to “foster human intelligence for the benefit of humanity.” While being a part of Mensa has never exactly been cool, some worry the organization is losing the cultural cachet that made it a household name when membership exploded in the 1970s and ’80s. Membership in American Mensa fell to a 15-year low of 52,364 in 2018. Millennials make up around 13% of the club. Only a third of its members are women.“There are only so many board game sessions and hug dots you can take,” said Donald Sprague, a 65-year-old semiretired technology consultant from Newport Beach, Calif.Mr. Sprague, who graduated from high school at 15, has drifted in and out of Mensa since the 1980s. These days he avoids the group’s larger gatherings and limits his participation to local lunches with a few fellow members.Mensa’s admission test—heavy on logic and deductive reasoning—takes two hours and is administered in person by a volunteer. Mensa says a qualifying score indicates you’ve tested in the top 2% of the general population. The $79 annual fee gets you a membership card, a subscription to the group’s monthly magazine and an @mensa.com email address.On members indulging in games and frivolity, Charles Brown, American Mensa’s director of marketing and communications, said, “I’m not sure that’s what the founders had in mind.” Still, Mensa “has evolved, as associations evolve,” he said. Mensans can find talks on everything from computers to zoology at the group’s gatherings, and the organization presents awards for scientific research and underwrites programs for gifted youth. Mr. Brown added that the dip in membership is consistent with the ebb and flow of its roster over the decades.More than a few members have met their significant others in Mensa, where the unofficial dating motto is “the odds are good, but the goods are odd.”Yet the dichotomy between frivolous fun and high-mindedness keeps popping up. Lancelot Ware, the late British scientist and lawyer who co-founded Mensa in 1946 as a semi-secret “aristocracy of the intellect,” said at the group’s 50th anniversary he was “disappointed that so many members spend so much time solving puzzles,” according to the book “Embracing the Wide Sky: A Tour Across the Horizons of the Mind” by Daniel Tammet.Just talking about weighty topics isn’t enough for contemporary Mensans like Craig McCue of Des Moines, Iowa. An avid astrophotographer, the 56-year-old systems architect has enjoyed sharing his pictures of celestial objects and once joined a dating subgroup where tall Mensans could seek love. He eventually grew frustrated with his local groups, where members touted their intelligence while “just…sitting on a couch, having philosophical discussions.”“Being a genius is not taking a standardized test, it’s what you contribute to the world,” he said.That sentiment drew eyerolls at Mensa’s Cincinnati regional gathering, where around 200 Mensans—many of them clad in punny T-shirts, oversize slippers and silly hats—converged.At one liquor-tasting session, members of all ages gathered around a long table lined with everything from vodka-soaked gummy bears to homemade moonshine. Alan Baltis, a burly IT consultant who has appeared on “Jeopardy!” and once hugged more than 800 people in an hour as he pursued the hugging world record, launched the festivities with the traditional Mensan toast: “We’ve got brain cells to spare!”Several rooms packed with board games were open around the clock, pickup card games sprang up in every corner, and the most serious players tested their skills in a dayslong tournaments of Hearts and the tactical shape-matching game Qwirkle.Mensans said their love of games stems from a desire to solve puzzles and figure out the world. Many also said that interacting with others within the framework of a game helped them overcome a tendency toward introversion. Others blamed a competitive streak that could be satisfied only by facing off against like-minded members.“I don’t have to dumb myself down here, or lose on purpose,” said Pamela Harders as she prepared for the second round of a Hearts tournament. The North Carolina real-estate investor joined Mensa in the late ’70s after acing a sample quiz she stumbled upon in an issue of Reader’s Digest.Timi Olotu, a 30-year-old growth marketer from London, has also found a divide on frivolity in the U.K., where the organization was founded. He joined Mensa last year hoping to meet other technology entrepreneurs but found a roster that appeared to be full of “old folks from the countryside” discussing chess, backgammon and Go. He did meet a fellow techie in the organization a few months later, however, and the two soon founded a startup.Lately, Mr. Olotu has warmed to the organization and enjoys online discussions on technology and cognitive function with his fellow Mensans.“Still, around 60% of the time, they talk board games,” he said. “You can’t get away from that.”China’s bid to rein in surging levels of corporate debt has taken a back seat to propping up short-term growth, as trade tensions with the U.S. fuel investors’ fears over Beijing’s commitment to deleveraging the world’s No. 2 economy.Officials say cutting debt at domestic companies—in particular at bloated state-owned enterprises—is a national priority required to shore up long-term economic and financial health.In practice, faced with annual growth targets and ongoing U.S. trade tensions that could sap lucrative exports, leaders including President Xi Jinping have stressed shoring up domestic demand and urged local governments to speed up investment projects to ensure adequate growth.Instead of raising interest rates—which some economists say is necessary for China to ultimately succeed in deleveraging—China’s central bank has freed up more cash for its banks to lend. It cut banks’ reserve requirements four times in 2018, freeing up several hundred billion dollars for lending.“If they were really serious about deleveraging they would have to tighten monetary policy, which is something they don’t really seem willing to do,” said Maximilian Kärnfelt, an economic analyst at the Mercator Institute for China Studies in Berlin.China’s central-bank governor Yi Gang defended China’s stance in December, saying “relatively loose” monetary policy is required to stabilize the economy in a downward cycle.Easy credit to state-owned companies helped propel China’s economic boom, particularly after the global financial crisis prompted authorities to pump half a trillion dollars of stimulus to keep the economy moving. Between 2008 and 2016, total credit to nonfinancial companies grew from less than 95% of gross domestic product to more than 150%, according to the Bank for International Settlements.Amid tightening regulations on risky lending, that figure declined to about 147% at the end of 2017 before rising in the first half of 2018, according to the latest data. G-20 countries, by comparison, stood at about 94% of GDP at the end of 2017. China’s total social financing—a broad measure of credit that also includes nonbank debt—continued to grow in 2018, although more slowly.“The commitment of China’s government to controlling and heading off financial risk is still there,” said Dominik Peschel, an economist at the Asian Development Bank in Beijing. Among the positive signals were efforts to cut excess capacity in bloated sectors as a way to improve corporate profitability and reduce debt loads, he said.By some measures, corporate health in China has improved. Solvency ratios increased at listed companies across a number of sectors, including automobiles and steel, according to data provider Wind Information Co. Profits at companies owned by the central government also grew at a double-digit rate.But U.S. trade tensions complicate matters going into 2019. While the two sides agreed to a temporary truce in December, many economists see a longer-term solution as tougher to achieve—and a source of great uncertainty for China’s growth going forward.  Partly as a result, U.S. and Chinese stock markets diverged in 2018—the Shanghai Composite Index fell around 25% versus a roughly 6% decline for the S&P 500.While economists say China can delay deleveraging in the near term, eventually tackling the buildup of debt in its financial system is inevitable. When it does, the effects could ricochet globally.Fitch Ratings said in June that deleveraging could cause China’s economy to grow by one percentage point less than its base case. The effects on China’s emerging-market trading partners would be similar, Fitch said, forecasting that growth in Brazil, Russia, South Korea and South Africa could all be around one percentage point lower by 2022 if China moves ahead on cutting debt. Brent crude prices could be about 10% lower, Fitch said.Stomaching the effects of slower growth could prove difficult for China, where maintaining high employment remains a priority for the Communist Party.“As of now, it certainly looks like regulation is taking effect, slowing credit growth, but not conclusively reversing anything,” said Mr. Kärnfelt.South Korean exports unexpectedly shrank in December despite the country’s outbound shipments hitting a record high for the whole year.The weaker-than-expected print in the final month of the year may portend headwinds blowing from cooling demand for memory chips after the latest global tech-cycle peaked in 2018 and rising protectionism in global trade.Exports fell 1.2% from a year earlier to $48.46 billion in December, turning around from a revised 4.1% gain in the preceding month, according to preliminary data from the customs office and the trade ministry Tuesday. The latest reading missed the median market forecast for a 2% rise.Imports rose 0.9% from a year earlier to $43.91 billion after a revised 11.5% rise in the prior month, creating a trade surplus of $4.56 billion.For the whole year, exports gained 5.5% in 2018—much slower than a 15.8% increase in 2017.South Korea, home to Samsung Electronics and other smaller global semiconductor suppliers, has recently faced weaker demand for memory chips overseas on sluggish global sales of mobile handsets, computer servers and other electronics, market analysts say.The country’s exports of refiled oil and petrochemicals have also recently been hit by declining crude prices, they say. The ongoing trade dispute between the U.S. and China—the top trading partners of South Korea—is still weighing on Korean exports.Seoul’s trade ministry said the country had performed relatively well despite tough conditions on the trade front. South Korean exports surpassed the annual $600-billion mark for the first time this year, allowing the economy to become the world’s seventh to breach the number, the ministry said.The country exported $605.47 billion while importing $534.99 billion for the whole 2018, it said.There isn’t usually anything too momentous about the NFL’s “Black Monday,” the day after the final games of the regular season when coaches are traditionally fired. It happens every year and so there isn’t typically a broader takeaway that reverberates through the league other than the fundamental notion that some number of teams decided they needed to make a change.This Black Monday isn’t like others. It has swept through the league with a forceful message: The NFL is changing quickly. And teams want modern thinkers prepared to handle the game’s evolution.At least eight teams are looking for head coaches now, a list that grew by six since the regular season’s conclusion on Sunday. That includes the Bengals splitting with Marvin Lewis, who had been the team’s coach since 2003 and the second-longest tenured in the league. Also, the Broncos (Vance Joseph), Buccaneers (Dirk Koetter), Cardinals (Steve Wilks), Dolphins (Adam Gase) and Jets (Todd Bowles) announced changes. The Packers and Browns had fired their respective head coaches, Mike McCarthy and Hue Jackson, earlier in the year.These changes come at a time of rapid innovation in the NFL, especially on offense. The league has been in the midst of a passing boom in recent years, and that has been buoyed by the incorporation of concepts that were once common in the college game but foreign at the highest level of the sport. Within a manner of years, ideas like spread offenses and RPOs—or run-pass options—have gone from being seen as college gimmicks to part of the NFL’s basic vernacular.In this light, these coaches who were fired were discarded because of other coaches who have been hired in recent years. They paved the way for teams to see the effect a bright, contemporary mind can have.The Rams, when they hired Sean McVay before the 2017 season, went from having the league’s worst offense to the best—with much of the same personnel in place. Another impressive about-face took place this year in Chicago, where the Bears plucked Matt Nagy off the Andy Reid coaching tree and watched the offense come to life.Now, every team wants Sean McVay or Matt Nagy to bring its franchise into the future.While Lewis stands out for his long stint in Cincinnati, other fired coaches had much briefer tenures. Joseph lasted only two years in Denver. Wilks didn’t make it through 12 months with Arizona. Wilks and Joseph were also two of five outgoing coaches who were black, a potential issue to monitor for the league’s diversity in the coaching ranks.Wilks’s departure was the strongest indication that many of these changes were born out of frustrations on offense at a time when other teams seemingly have figured out how to move the ball with ease. Arizona ranked last in the league on offense, and one season was enough for the team to try to find someone better.The Cardinals, Dolphins and Jets all ranked in the bottom four of the NFL in yards per game. The Packers fired McCarthy after the team underperformed despite boasting Aaron Rodgers, arguably the game’s best quarterback. The Browns showed more offensive firepower after firing Jackson and implementing fresh ideas with quarterback Baker Mayfield.The winds for these changes began last season with McVay’s instant success but grew even stronger at the end of last season. That’s when Doug Pederson, another former Reid protégé, led the Eagles to a Super Bowl win even after losing star quarterback Carson Wentz for the season.Pederson reminded everyone of that over the last few weeks. He lost Wentz, again. Nick Foles came in, again. And the Eagles rallied their way to the playoffs with Sunday’s win against the Redskins.MOSCOW—Russian authorities said Monday they had detained a U.S. citizen for alleged spying, setting the tone for more confrontation between the two countries in the new year.American Paul Whelan was arrested on Dec. 28 while “carrying out spying activities,” Russia’s main security agency, the FSB, said in a brief statement without providing further details.The State Department said Monday that the U.S. is aware of the detention of a U.S. citizen in Russia, but didn’t comment on his identity or occupation, citing privacy considerations. A spokeswoman said the U.S. has received formal notification of the detention from the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and has requested access to the American, in accordance with the 1963 Vienna Convention on Consular Relations.Mr. Whelan could face up to 20 years in jail if he is convicted of spying.“The law of retaliation states, ‘An eye for an eye or a tooth for a tooth,’ ” Russian President Vladimir Putin told reporters earlier this month when asked how his government would respond to politically motivated arrests. “But we will not arrest innocent people simply to exchange them for someone else later on.”In a New Year message to President Trump sent last week, Mr. Putin said Russia is open to dialogue “on the most wide-ranging agenda” with the U.S.In the past four years, Russia has met U.S. sanctions and tariffs with its own countermeasures that have either banned or raised the cost of selected Western imports entering Russia.Last week, Russian websites published the personal details of the British Broadcasting Corporation’s entire Moscow bureau. That disclosure came days after a British newspaper printed the names and photographs of some Russian state media journalists working in the country. The BBC has said only Russian authorities possessed that information.“The key thing to watch now is how Washington reacts,” Sam Greene, director of the Russia Institute at King’s College London, wrote on Twitter. “Will Trump push back hard, as previous presidents have? Or will he…throw Whelan under the bus?”WASHINGTON—A new acting secretary of defense has taken the reins at the Pentagon, vowing to work with President Trump to fulfill his goals for the military amid a broader transition across the Defense Department and the administration.Pat Shanahan, a onetime Boeing Co. executive and previously the deputy secretary, was chosen by Mr. Trump after the president removed Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, who had submitted a resignation letter that cited his differences with the White House.Mr. Mattis had planned to remain in office through February to ensure a smooth transition, but Mr. Trump, angered by news coverage of Mr. Mattis’ resignation letter, ordered the changeover to take place Tuesday. It was unclear whether Mr. Shanahan will be nominated to fill the position permanently, multiple officials said.Mr. Shanahan assumed control of the Defense Department at 11:59 p.m. Monday, saying he looks “forward to working with President Trump to carry out his vision,” along with other military and civilian leaders.Mr. Shanahan confronts a range of issues, including Mr. Trump’s plans to withdraw U.S. forces from Syria and Afghanistan. The president has indicated in recent days he will slow the drawdown of troops from Syria after first deciding the drawdown would be rapid; a final decision hasn’t been made yet about how the reduction of forces will occur in Afghanistan, officials said.The new acting secretary must also work to allay concerns among allies, who many U.S. officials and experts say see the turmoil in Washington as a threat to stability. Mr. Mattis had spent much of his time in office hopping the globe to reassure allies that the U.S. was with them.Mr. Shanahan also must work with a new Congress half controlled by Democrats as the Pentagon prepares to release its 2020 budget request, expected to top $700 billion.Mr. Shanahan is expected to designate an official to carry out his former duties as deputy secretary. Among those under consideration according to multiple officials are Robert Daigle, who now heads the Pentagon’s Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation office; Richard Spencer, the secretary of the Navy; and David Norquist, the Pentagon comptroller.The transition at the Pentagon also includes the resignation this week of Dana White, the Pentagon’s chief spokeswoman, who has been under investigation by the Department of Defense Inspector General for improper conduct and misuse of employees. She is being replaced by Charlie Summers, who had been her deputy.Ms. White responded to a request for comment later Tuesday evening. “Unlike your anonymous sources, I respect the integrity of the process and will continue to abide by the IG’s direction and remain silent on what is an ongoing investigation.”In a Twitter message on Monday, Ms. White said: “I appreciate the opportunity afforded to me by this administration to serve alongside Secretary Mattis, our Service members and all the civilians who support them.”The shift at the Pentagon is among several taking place in Washington, where an acting White House chief of staff is taking over for the departed John Kelly. Mr. Trump also announced recently that Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke is leaving.Mr. Mattis bid farewell to the Defense Department on Monday. In a short note to all employees and service members, he said the department is in good hands.“I am confident that each of you remains undistracted from our sworn mission to support and defend the Constitution while protecting our way of life,” he wrote.Mr. Mattis, who studied the history of warfare for decades, cited a telegram sent by President Lincoln to Gen. Ulysses Grant on Feb. 1, 1865 near the end of the Civil War, in which President Lincoln said: “Let nothing which is transpiring, change, hinder, or delay your military movements, or plans.”Mr. Mattis ended his farewell note without mentioning President Trump. “It has been my high honor to serve at your side,” he wrote employees. “May God hold you safe in the air, on land, and at sea.”The Labor Department’s online portal for seasonal work visa applications crashed on New Year’s Eve, throwing thousands of landscapers, restaurant owners and other seasonal businesses into limbo as they make staffing plans for the spring and summer.“For a lot of these companies, they cannot bid contracts without knowing that they have a stable workforce,” said Sarah Molina, an immigration lawyer in St. Louis who stayed up late Monday to file nine H-2B visa applications on behalf of landscaping companies. “This is destroying their new year.”The online portal slowed down and then froze late Dec. 31 and early Jan. 1, according to users. Eventually, the Labor Department shut it down with a note apologizing for the system outage caused by overwhelming filing demand. Companies rush to file as soon as the application opens, as that allows their requests to be handled ahead of competitors for the limited number of slots.None have been processed yet for the coming summer season, an agency spokesperson said. The Labor Department will provide an update on Jan. 2, and will give at least 24 hours’ notice before bringing it back online, she added.The Labor Department is fully funded through September, and the problems with the online portal are unrelated to the partial government shutdown.The website trouble is likely to be only a short-term glitch in a popular but complex program, which requires approvals from the Departments of Labor, Homeland Security and State. But it is yet another frustration for employers, who have found it harder in a tightening labor market to find enough lawn mowers, crab pickers and other temporary workers to fill tens of thousands of temporary jobs across the country.U.S. law caps the number of H-2B visas available every year at 66,000, divided evenly between a winter and summer season. In recent years, businesses have bumped up against the cap, increasing the competition to file first. On Jan. 1, 2018, businesses filed requests for more than 81,000 workers for the six-month summer season starting last April 1, a record. In response, the Labor Department changed the process, turning it into a first-come, first-served system where each second counts.“Everybody tried to get everything in right away because eventually the Department of Labor will say the cap has been met and they are no longer accepting applications,” C. Ben Thuringer, chief operating officer of Madden’s on Gull Lake, a 300-room resort in Brainerd, Minn. Mr. Thuringer said the website outage should only briefly delay the processing of H-2B applications.But given the complexity and uncertainty, small-business owners and immigration lawyers across the country were staying up late on New Year’s Eve counting the clock to midnight—not to celebrate the new year, but to file H-2B visa applications.Mac Hay, the owner of four restaurants and a hotel on Cape Cod, Mass., stayed up until 3 a.m. waiting for word on when the glitch would be remedied. “We wanted to submit our application as soon as we could,” he said.Mr. Hay, who employs about 450 seasonal employees, is seeking H-2B visas for about 70 temporary foreign workers, who would be employed as dishwashers, prep cooks, cooks and housekeepers.Without them, Mr. Hay may have to consider cutting back hours, closing one day a week or even shuttering one location. “The whole situation is so pathetic, but it’s what we have to do to stay in business,” he said.As the Trump economic revival doubled economic-growth rates over the last two years, interest rates, which had fallen in the final two years of the Obama era, have risen by more than 40%. Today no news cycle is complete without speculation about how much the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates or how the president has blasted the Fed for setting rates too high. The latest saga played out last month, with the Fed raising rates for the fourth time in 2018 even though market rates were down slightly since the last Fed hike, in September. Extraordinarily, this debate is occurring at the very moment the Fed—shackled by its bloated asset holdings and the resulting excess reserves of the banking system—has less ability to control interest rates than it has had in its entire 105-year history.When the subprime crisis caused financial markets to freeze up in 2008, the Fed responded by pumping liquidity into the banking system. It also did something that was not widely discussed at the time and even a decade later is almost never taken into account: It started to pay interest on reserves, in essence paying banks not to lend. This effectively converted the reserves of the banking system into interest-bearing securities.When the recovery lagged, the Fed continued its monetary expansion by increasing the assets in its balance sheet to almost five times their prerecession level. By buying Treasurys and mortgage-backed securities, the Fed acquired or offset some 45% of all federal debt issued during the Obama era—about four times the share of federal debt the Fed purchased during World War II. But whereas Fed purchases during World War II expanded bank reserves, bank lending and the money supply, the much larger debt purchases of the Obama era did not significantly increase bank lending or the money supply. The increase in bank reserves, which grew as a mirror image of Fed asset purchases, was sterilized by the policy of paying interest on reserves, which induced banks to hold them as income-yielding assets.In August 2008, banks held a total of 14 cents of reserves for every dollar of demand deposits outstanding, reflecting a normal reserve ratio in a fractional-reserve banking system. Today, U.S. banks hold $1.31 of reserves for every dollar of demand deposits outstanding.From 2009-16, private loan demand was weak in an economy kept in a stupor by high taxes and an avalanche of regulations. In that stagnant environment, the Fed was able to manage its massive balance sheet and inflated bank reserves without either igniting inflation or causing interest rates to rise. But the strong growth of the past 18 months is now driving up the demand for bank loans, increasing interest rates, and in the process incentivizing banks to lend.With banks now holding more than $9 of reserves for every dollar they are required to hold, return on bank lending relative to the return the Fed pays on reserves determines the volume of bank loans and the money supply. If the Fed sets interest rates on reserves above the market alternative, banks will expand their holdings of excess reserves, and the money supply will fall. If the interest rate on reserves is set at the market rate, other things being the same, the money supply will stay the same. If market interest rates rise and the rate paid by the Fed stays the same or rises by less, banks will expand loans and the money supply will increase.Historically, banks held few excess reserves as the Fed did not pay interest on them. The money supply changed when the Fed altered bank reserves through lending or buying and selling securities. Now if market interest rates rise and the Fed does not act by raising the rate it pays on reserves, the money supply increases as banks increase lending. As a result, to maintain any given money supply, the Fed must respond to changes in market interest rates. In doing so the Fed becomes an interest-rate follower, not a leader.If the Fed could find just the right mix of selling assets and lowering the rate it pays on excess reserves, it could theoretically succeed in reducing the assets it holds and reducing bank reserves without either spiking interest rates and choking off the recovery or igniting inflation. But the danger posed by the Fed’s bloated asset holdings and the resulting massive level of excess bank reserves is that with a full blown recovery now under way, the demand for credit will accelerate and force the Fed to move quickly to raise interest rates on reserves or sell securities to sop up excess reserves. A small error by the Fed in following market interest rates could cause a large change in the money supply.If the Fed tried to keep interest rates low as credit demand rises amid the current recovery, the money supply and inflation would explode. While the Fed is not forever shackled by the monetary excesses of the Obama era, the sheer size of its asset holdings virtually guarantees that the Fed will feel the yoke of the massive excess reserves in the banking system for the remainder of this recovery.If the Fed can follow market interest rates and prudently sell down the assets on its balance sheet without causing interest rates to spike or inflation to spin out of control, it will have overcome the monetary excesses of the Obama era and made a major contribution to sustaining the recovery.