NEW YORK—Don Larsen, the journeyman pitcher who reached the heights of baseball glory in 1956 for the New York Yankees when he threw a perfect game and the only no-hitter in World Series history, died Wednesday night. He was 90.Mr. Larsen’s agent, Andrew Levy, said the former pitcher died of esophageal cancer in hospice care in Hayden, Idaho. Mr. Levy said Mr. Larsen’s son, Scott, confirmed the death.Mr. Larsen was the unlikeliest of characters to attain what so many Hall of Famers couldn’t pull off in the Fall Classic. He was 81-91 lifetime, never won more than 11 games in a season and finished an unsightly 3-21 with Baltimore in 1954, the year before he was dealt to the Yankees as part of an 18-player trade.In the 1956 World Series, won in seven games by the Yankees, he was knocked out in the second inning of Game 2 by the Brooklyn Dodgers and didn’t think he would have another opportunity to pitch. But when he reached Yankee Stadium on the morning of Oct. 8, he found a baseball in his shoe, the signal from manager Casey Stengel that he would start Game 5.“I must admit I was shocked,” Mr. Larsen wrote in his autobiography. “I knew I had to do better than the last time, keep the game close and somehow give our team a chance to win. Casey was betting on me, and I was determined not to let him down this time.”The Dodgers and Yankees split the first four games and Mr. Stengel liked the deception of Larsen’s no-windup delivery. The manager’s instincts proved historically correct. The lanky right-hander struck out seven, needed just 97 pitches to tame the Dodgers and only once went to three balls on a batter—against Pee Wee Reese in the first inning.In winning 2-0, the Yankees themselves only managed five hits against the Dodgers’ Sal Maglie but scored on Mickey Mantle’s home run and an RBI single by Hank Bauer.Mr. Larsen, selected MVP of the 1956 Series, survived two close calls. In the second inning, Jackie Robinson hit a hard grounder that was deflected by third baseman Andy Carey to shortstop Gil McDougald, who threw out Robinson. In the fifth, Mantle ran down a long drive to left-center field by Gil Hodges. With two outs in the ninth, pinch hitter Dale Mitchell took a third strike, completing the perfect game and sending catcher Yogi Berra dashing out from behind the plate to leap into Mr. Larsen’s arms. It remains one of baseball’s most joyous images.“When Yogi Berra jumped on me and grabbed with the bear hug, my mind went completely blank,” Mr. Larsen wrote in his autobiography. “I was under friendly attack…I was swept into the dugout.”Born Aug. 7, 1929 in Michigan City, Indiana, Mr. Larsen moved with his family to San Diego, where he went to Point Loma High School, the alma mater of another Yankees perfect game pitcher, David Wells. Mr. Larsen played basketball and baseball and was signed by the St. Louis Browns for a $500 bonus and $150 a month.After two minor league seasons, Mr. Larsen hurt his arm and then spent two years in the Army. He was promoted to the Browns in 1953 and moved with the team to Baltimore the following year. He struggled through his 3-21 season, but two of the wins were against the Yankees, who insisted he be included in the trade that also brought pitching star Bob Turley to New York.Mr. Larsen started 1955 with the Yankees farm team in Denver, where he went 9-1 and developed the no-windup delivery. Promoted to the Yankees midway through the season, he finished 9-2 for New York. Mr. Larsen went 11-5 the next season and enjoyed the party atmosphere of the Yankees, often running with Mantle, Billy Martin and Whitey Ford in their late-night rounds of the city. On the night before his perfect game, he had been out on the town, believing he wasn’t in Mr. Stengel’s plans for the next day. Mr. Larsen pitched in three other World Series. He won Game 2 of the 1957 series against Hank Aaron and the Milwaukee Braves, but lost the decisive Game 7. He shut out the Braves 4-0 on six hits in Game 3 of the 1958 series, when New York beat Milwaukee 4-3, and was back in the 1962 matchup with the San Francisco Giants.Pitching against the Yankees on Oct. 8, the sixth anniversary of his perfect game, he won in relief at Yankee Stadium. After the 1959 season, he was traded to Kansas City in a deal that brought Roger Maris to New York. With the A’s, he went 1-10 in 1960, a reminder of his dreadful season with the Orioles. He was sent back to the minors where he became a relief pitcher and then moved on to the Giants, Chicago White Sox, Houston, Baltimore and the Chicago Cubs.Mr. Larsen retired in 1967 with an 81-91 record for 14 major league seasons. He later worked as a liquor salesman and paper company executive. When the Yankees’ David Cone pitched a perfect game during the 1999 season, Mr. Larsen was in attendance, having thrown out the first ball.No other pitcher has thrown a perfect game in the postseason, but in 2010 the Phillies’ Roy Halladay pitched a no-hitter against the Cincinnati Reds during the National League Division Series. “They can never break my record,” Mr. Larsen would say of his game. “The best they can do is tie it. October 8, 1956, was a mystical trip through fantasyland. Sometimes I still wonder whether it really all happened.”In addition to son Scott, Mr. Larsen is also survived by his wife, Corrine, daughter-in-law Nancy, and grandsons Justin and Cody.Funeral arrangements were pending.Poetry is often considered the least commercial of art forms, one that appeals to a small circle of enthusiasts. A typical poetry reading attracts an audience of a few dozen.But there is nothing typical about the marathon reading organized every New Year’s Day by the Poetry Project, a Manhattan-based nonprofit organization.Now in its 46th year, the event, held annually at St. Mark’s Church in-the-Bowery, on East 10th Street, brings together more than 100 poets, plus musicians and other performers, over the span of 10 hours. It is a fundraiser for the Poetry Project—and something of a soulful, spirited celebration of the New Year.And the reading draws as many as 2,000 attendees over the course of the day, organizers said. Indeed, by the middle of Wednesday afternoon, the church was nearly at capacity.Among those on hand was Richard Berger, a retired mail carrier from Staten Island who said he has been attending the event for about a decade.“I like to start off the new year with some kind of hope or insight,” he said.The event, with admission priced at $20, offered plenty of both. The poets—a multigenerational, multicultural group—read works that spoke of pressing issues, from climate change to racial identity.But they also offered poems marked by a sense of whimsy or nostalgia. Or, in the case of a work by Ilka Scobie, a little of both.Her poem was an ode to the New York taxi of yesteryear, celebrating a mode of transit now increasingly forgotten in a city where rides are often hailed via a smartphone app.For attendees who wanted to keep the celebration going after the event, the Poetry Project set up a pop-up bookshop in the church. Poetry books from more than 30 publishers were on sale for between $4 and $10.Organizers said the event is also a way of honoring the East Village as a creative hub, even in an era when it is now home to chain stores and pricey apartments.The Poetry Project was established in 1966 by poets who lived in or frequented the neighborhood and wanted to find a venue beyond the local coffee houses to share their work. And while the area has certainly seen its share of gentrification over the past half-century, the Poetry Project stays true to its mission, said Executive Director Kyle Dacuyan, a poet himself.He noted that beyond the New Year’s marathon, the Poetry Project hosts more than 60 readings annually at St. Mark’s Church and offers writing workshops. The organization is run on an annual budget of $500,000-$600,000, he said.“We are endeavoring to make poetry available to anyone who might want it,” Mr. Dacuyan said.The New Year’s Day event is naturally the biggest expression of that philosophy. Mr. Dacuyan said the challenge of putting together the marathon is winnowing down the list of featured poets, particularly in a city so rich with talent.Austria’s Conservatives and Greens have agreed to form a new government in a move that could inspire similar alliances across Europe, where incumbent center-right parties are looking to harness rising voter interest in the environment to fight off insurgencies led by populist rivals.The coalition under former Conservative Chancellor Sebastian Kurz was announced by both parties as a marriage between liberal economic reforms, including tax cuts, and new environmental policies driven by the growing popular movement in Europe demanding action against climate change.The new government, which came together three months after federal elections in late September, is expected to pursue a reformist agenda that could put pressure on European leaders such as Angela Merkel of Germany, who has been criticized at home for failing to address voters’ climate-related concerns.Hundreds of thousands of people took to the streets in Germany and across Europe calling for action on climate change throughout last year, which saw a record surge of the Green parties in the polls in Germany, Austria and elsewhere. According to polls in Germany, any feasible coalition at the moment would have to include an alliance between Ms. Merkel’s Christian Democrats and the Greens.Mr. Kurz, an outspoken critic of illegal immigration and one of the rising hopes for Europe’s conservatives, is now a chancellor-designate. He already served as chancellor until May of 2019, when his coalition government collapsed because the leader of his then junior coalition partner, a far-right nationalist, resigned after video emerged of him offering public contracts to a woman he believed to be the niece of a Moscow oligarch. Austria has been under a caretaker government since then.Though the scandal led to a snap election, Mr. Kurz—one of the world’s youngest leaders at age 33—weathered the crisis and achieved a record result for his conservative party in September. Like President Trump in the U.S. and the British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, Mr. Kurz remodeled his conservative party after his own image before winning the elections. He campaigned on an anti-immigration ticket and a promise to cut taxes and reform Austria’s social and welfare systems.“We achieved a breakthrough,” Mr. Kurz told a press conference in Vienna on Wednesday night after the coalition talks. “It is possible to slash taxes and make environment-friendly tax policies. It is possible to protect the environment and protect the borders.”In his brief address, Mr. Kurz said the coalition agreement united what he called the best policies of the conservatives and the Greens. He said his new government would deliver tax breaks and effective environmental and climate policies, while maintaining a hard line against illegal immigration and political Islam.Werner Kogler, the designated vice chancellor and head of the Greens, said Austria would become Europe’s leader in environmental policies.Details of the new government’s policies were expected to be announced on Thursday. Concessions that Mr. Kurz’s party extracted from the coalition talks include a ban on the Islamic veil for girls younger than 14, a forceful detention of asylum seekers deemed a danger to public safety and a balanced budget, according to people familiar with the negotiations.Those people said the Greens got Mr. Kurz to accept an environmental tax for trucks and airplane tickets, subsidies for public transportation as well as full transparency for party financing.The new government is expected to be sworn in by next week, following an internal vote in the Green Party on Saturday to approve the coalition deal.Stocks around the world closed out one of their best years over the past decade, defying money managers who began 2019 expecting the bull market to be upended by threats from the U.S.-China trade fight and a slowdown in growth.Just 12 months ago, the mood was far dimmer. The global economy was weakening, stocks, bonds and commodities were falling in tandem and money managers worried the Federal Reserve’s interest-rate increases would turn an economic slowdown into a protracted downturn.Fast forward to the final day of the decade, and stock indexes from the U.S. to Brazil to Germany were up more than 20% apiece for 2019. While prior such runs have been met by skepticism, this time, few see the rally ending soon.Will global markets be able to sustain their rise in 2020? Why or why not? Join the conversation below.The Dow Jones Industrial Average’s more than 170% rise from 2010 to 2020 ranks as just the fourth-best decadelong performance in the past 100 years—a gain that, while respectable, doesn’t conjure the fear of excess that rallies in the 80s and 90s did. Many investment banks forecast solid, if modest, gains for the coming year, citing central banks’ easy-money policies, a resilient U.S. economy and a breakthrough in Washington-Beijing trade talks.BMO Capital Markets and Goldman Sachs estimate the S&P 500 will end 2020 at 3400, 5.2% above where the index closed Tuesday, while Citigroup and Bank of America have put their target at 3300.“I surely wouldn’t expect a repeat as far as the magnitude of market gains, but I think we’re set up for a better year in 2020 than we were in 2019,” said Dan Miller, director of equities at GW&K Investment Management.He added that he hopes that the combination of lower interest rates and cooling trade tensions will help sustain stock gains in the new year.On the final trading day of 2019, the S&P 500 edged up 0.3% to 3230.78, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average added 0.3% to 28538.44 and Nasdaq Composite added 0.3% to 8972.60.The S&P 500 finished the year up 29% for its best showing since 2013, while the Dow added 22% and the Nasdaq advanced 35%.Elsewhere, the Stoxx Europe 600 finished the year up 23% for its biggest gain since 2009, and the Shanghai Composite climbed 22%.Hong Kong’s shares lagged behind global indexes, with the Hang Seng Index ending the year up 9% after months of clashes between antigovernment demonstrations and police.“Despite a tricky macro backdrop, it’s been a very, very good year for global markets,’’ said Emma Wall, head of investment analysis at Hargreaves Lansdown.Many say it is difficult to pinpoint what exactly could trip up the rally in 2020.There are a number of uncertainties that investors say they will be watching: The U.S. and China haven’t completed a trade deal yet, the U.K. is set to leave the European Union at the end of January and there is a U.S. presidential election in November.The global economy has also cooled, with factory activity in particular taking a hit around the world this past year.But the level of anxiety that investors say they have about each of these threats seems far more subdued than was the case a year ago.U.S. stock markets are set to have their best year since 2013.President Trump said Tuesday that he would sign a phase one trade agreement with China at the White House in mid-January and then head to Beijing later for talks on“phase two of a trade deal.Though details on such a deal remain scant, many money managers have looked favorably upon the general de-escalation of trade tensions, helping shares of manufacturers, chip makers and other trade-sensitive companies bounce off their lows of the year.“The headwinds we experienced earlier in 2019 from the trade wars and potential problems with Brexit—those headwinds have diminished sharply,” said Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist and managing director at MUFG.Adding to that, fears of a U.S. recession have eased, thanks to a resilient labor market and signs of solid consumer spending.Economists surveyed by The Wall Street Journal forecast the economy will grow by 1.8% in 2020.That would mark a slowdown from prior years but extend the longest economic expansion in U.S. history.“Now that the coast is looking a little bit more clear for the economy, I think it’s okay to embrace risk here at this stage,” Mr. Rupkey said.The quality of care at hospitals acquired during a recent wave of deal making got worse or stayed the same, new research found, a blow to a frequently cited rationale for tie-ups.Hospital merger-and-acquisition activity has surged in recent years, with executives involved in transactions making the case that greater size will boost quality with new investments and yield other improvements as deal makers benefit from each others’ strengths.The new research, published in the New England Journal of Medicine, looked for evidence of quality gains using four widely used measures of performance at nearly 250 hospitals acquired in deals between 2009 and 2013. The analysis didn’t find it, said the study’s authors.“Quality didn’t improve,” said Harvard University research associate Nancy Beaulieu, lead author of the study.The study is one of the first large-scale efforts to examine whether hospital combinations deliver benefits to offset higher prices associated with the sector’s consolidation, said health-policy experts not involved in the research.“For the first time there is good science,” said Susan Haas, a visiting scientist at Brigham and Women’s Hospital and the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health’s innovation center Ariadne Labs, who studies risk of harm to patients from health-care transactions. For regulators, the research offers new grounds to challenge deal makers who assert better quality will follow their transaction. Regulators can now say, “Prove it to me,” Dr. Haas said.American Hospital Association general counsel Melinda Hatton in a statement cited research the trade group sponsored by Charles River Associates that found quality improved and revenue for each admission declined in the first year after hospital transactions. Admissions reflect inpatient and outpatient care.The question of impact has become increasingly pressing as hospital deal making soared in the past decade. Hospitals announced 90 deals in 2018, a dip from the recent high of 117 transactions the prior year, but up 80% from 50 deals in 2009, according to data from Kaufman Hall, a health-care consulting firm. Figures include joint ventures and deals for minority interest.Prior studies have found higher prices follow mergers. Prices increased 6% after nearby hospitals merged, according to one analysis published by the Quarterly Journal of Economics in 2018. Another 2017 study found acquisitions raised prices 6% to 7% when competitors became rivals in new markets as deals expanded their geographic footprint.Prices in the $1 trillion hospital sector face heightened scrutiny amid rising health-care costs and reports of aggressive billing practices. Anticompetitive risks from hospital merger-and-acquisition activity are also raising alarms in Washington.“I am concerned about the increasing consolidation in local markets,” Alex Azar, secretary of Health and Human Services, said in an October interview. New proposals from the Trump administration would force more price transparency from hospitals and private insurers.Kate Bundorf, an associate professor of health policy at Stanford University who wasn’t involved in the new research, said experts have questioned the benefits of deals without enough research to provide answers. “We know they have harms. We know prices go up. We don’t really know what’s happening to quality.”In the latest study, researchers looked at four measures of performance collected by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services: patient satisfaction; deaths within a month of entering the hospital; return trips to the hospital within a month of leaving; and how often some heart, pneumonia and surgery patients got recommended care.The study examined the average results for acquired hospitals, looking three years before and up to four years after each transaction. Researchers also compared findings to an analysis of select hospitals not involved in transactions or nearby. Combined, these methods seek to ensure results aren’t skewed by other factors, such as changes in the economy, health-care policy or local patients.The study found patient-satisfaction scores worsened at acquired hospitals, on average. The scores measure whether patients give hospitals a top rating and would give them a good recommendation. Results, which are based on patient surveys tied to payment by Medicare, also reflect if doctors and nurses communicated well and how often patients got help when they wanted it.The drop in patient satisfaction was largely concentrated among hospitals snapped up by acquirers that already had lower patient-satisfaction scores compared with other acquirers.Consolidation could explain the decline if deal making leaves patients with fewer options and hospitals face less pressure to compete for their business, though the study didn’t measure local changes in market power post-deals, said Michael McWilliams, a Harvard University professor of health-care policy and one of the study authors.Other results found no signs of worsening performance among local competitors of newly acquired hospitals, but also no signs of improvement.Rates of death and return trips to the hospital remained the same at acquired hospitals before and after deals, the study found.Results were inconclusive for the study’s measure of how often patients got recommended medical care, such as whether heart-attack patients got aspirin when leaving the hospital. Performance improved at acquired hospitals—during the three-year premerger period of study. Quality didn’t change after deals.David Stern, who transformed the National Basketball Association and championed the globalization of the sport in his 30 years as the league’s commissioner, died Wednesday. He was 77.The cause was complications from a brain hemorrhage he suffered on Dec. 12, the league said in a news release.The league’s longest-serving commissioner, Mr. Stern was as gruff as he was enormously influential when he was the most powerful man in basketball. He retired in 2014 and passed the NBA’s stewardship to his longtime deputy, Adam Silver, after overseeing a period of growth that turned the NBA into the international behemoth it is today.“Because of David, the NBA is a truly global brand, making him not only one of the greatest sports commissioners of all time but also one of the most influential business leaders of his generation,” Mr. Silver said.Mr. Stern was appointed commissioner of the NBA in 1984, the same year the Chicago Bulls drafted Michael Jordan, and he presided over a golden age of professional basketball with a strong hand.The rivalry between the Boston Celtics and Los Angeles Lakers carried the NBA to new cultural heights in the 1980s, and the rise of the dominant Chicago Bulls and their transcendent star Michael Jordan in the 1990s coincided with Mr. Stern’s enthusiasm for taking the game beyond the U.S.The league crossed the border to Canada when it awarded a franchise in Toronto, exported basketball to Asia, Europe and Africa and encouraged the best American players to destroy the competition in the Olympics. In a sign of things to come, the Stern era also saw the emergence in the NBA of top international players, including Hakeem Olajuwon, Dirk Nowitzki and Yao Ming.The NBA created a developmental league and launched the WNBA under Mr. Stern’s watch. Mr. Jordan, Larry Bird and Earvin “Magic” Johnson paved the way for Kobe Bryant, LeBron James and Stephen Curry. By the time Mr. Stern retired and became the NBA’s commissioner emeritus, the league was months away from signing a $24 billion television deal, more than 250 times the first TV pact under Mr. Stern.When the Bulls were sold in 1985, the year after Mr. Stern succeeded Larry O’Brien as commissioner, the price was $16 million, which is less than the annual salary of more than 75 players this season. When the Los Angeles Clippers were sold in 2014, months after Mr. Silver replaced Mr. Stern, they went for $2 billion.Mr. Stern’s tenure atop the league was littered with controversies that made him a polarizing figure at times in his own sport. He represented the owners and the interests of the league in four labor disputes that resulted in lockouts. He also coordinated the responses to some of the NBA’s ugliest incidents, including the 2004 brawl, involving players and spectators at the Palace of Auburn Hills, Mich., that became known as the “Malice at the Palace.”A proud donor to progressive causes and Democratic politicians, Mr. Stern was heavily criticized when he mandated a dress code for the players in 2005. The move was seen as patronizing given the league’s racial makeup. But the dress code inadvertently spawned an obsession with fashion that has swept the league and turned NBA players into the world’s tallest models.Other parts of his legacy remained unsettled at the time of his death. Mr. Stern believed it was essential to expand internationally, but he also expressed personal misgivings about the repressive political environment in some of the league’s most important foreign markets. Those included China, where the league found itself in a battle over free speech during the last few months of his life.“At the end of the day, I have a responsibility to my owners to make money,” Mr. Stern told Sports Illustrated in 2006. “I can never forget that, no matter what my personal feelings might be.”David Joel Stern was born in 1942 and raised in New Jersey before enrolling in Rutgers University and Columbia Law School. He took a job as a litigator at the corporate law firm Proskauer Rose, where the NBA was a client. He left in 1978 to be the NBA’s first general counsel at a time when the league still resembled a startup. Mr. Stern helped to introduce drug testing and the salary cap, which remains in place and separates NBA teams from the free-spending franchises of Major League Baseball.He was a boisterous, demanding, occasionally caustic executive who was in power for so long that he seemed nearly imperial by the end of his reign. He was fiercely protective of the league’s brand, even if along the way it meant belittling skeptics, reporters and subordinates.He took such pride in being involved with even minor details of the business that he named his postretirement investment firm Micromanagement Ventures Portfolio.A feisty personality, Mr. Stern didn’t simply tolerate the role of playing the league’s hero or villain so much as he reveled in it. It became a tradition near the end of his 30 years as commissioner for spectators at the NBA draft to boo him—and then boo him even louder when Mr. Stern cupped a hand to his ear and begged for more.“I can’t hear you,” he said as he announced a draft pick in 2013.He emerged a few picks later to another deafening round of boos and let the jeers wash over him. “We’ve had to explain to our international audience that the boo is an American sign of respect,” Mr. Stern said.But when he braced the lectern for the last pick of the first round in 2013, his final draft as commissioner, he was greeted with an unexpected sound: applause.“Stop it,” Mr. Stern said. “You’re ruining all the fun.”Ajai Singh “Sonny” Mehta, the fabled editor in chief of Alfred A. Knopf who published such Nobel Prize-winning authors as Kazuo Ishiguro and Toni Morrison, died Monday, according to a spokesman for Knopf.Mr. Mehta, who also served as chairman of the Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group, a unit of Penguin Random House, was 77 years old.Mr. Mehta for decades was one of New York’s most successful publishing executives. Knopf’s list ranged from such literary writers as Japan’s Haruki Murakami to popular crime-fiction authors, among them Carl Hiaasen, Stieg Larsson, and James Ellroy.Mr. Mehta’s mix of keen literary sensibilities and strong commercial instincts is what most distinguished his career, colleagues said. Authors whose careers blossomed at Knopf include Cormac McCarthy, whose post-apocalyptic novel “The Road” established him as one of the country’s leading contemporary writers and won the Pulitzer Prize.The son of an Indian diplomat, Mr. Mehta grew up in a variety of places, including Prague, New York City and New Delhi. After graduating from Cambridge University, Mr. Mehta held a series of London-based jobs, gaining prominence as a paperback publisher. He moved to New York and joined Knopf in 1987 as editor in chief.Mr. Mehta, who enjoyed Famous Grouse Scotch whisky, French Burgundy wine and long nights at the opera, largely avoided the New York media, preferring to focus on his authors.Mr. Mehta published former President Clinton’s successful memoir “My Life,” as well as Robert Caro’s four volumes about President Lyndon Johnson. Knopf Doubleday’s paperback imprint Vintage Books struck gold with E.L. James’s “Fifty Shades of Grey” erotic trilogy.Other successes included Sheryl Sandberg’s “Lean In: Women, Work, and the Will to Lead” and Donna Tartt’s novel “The Secret History.”During a period of digital disruption when it appeared that e-books might supercede physical books as the format of choice for many readers, Mr. Mehta predicted physical books would endure. “On a good day, I am still convinced I have the best job in the world,” Mr. Mehta told Vanity Fair in 2015.He was willing to take chances. After one publisher canceled Bret Easton Ellis’s violent serial killer novel “American Psycho” prior to publication, Vintage Books bought it and published the novel as a paperback original in 1991. The book became a top seller.Mr. Mehta rarely raised his voice, and many of those who worked with him at Knopf stayed for decades. In an industry where many jump from house to house, Knopf had numerous employees who enjoyed work anniversaries of 25 years or more.“Sonny was unique. He was an exceptional editor and publisher,” Penguin Random House U.S. CEO Madeline McIntosh said in a memo to Knopf Doubleday employees Tuesday. “And I recognize all of you felt not only safe under his leadership, but something more: you felt like you were part of a family. The longevity and stability of your group, along with the culture Sonny promoted and the lasting relationships he developed, is extraordinary by any standard.”In a speech he gave in 2018, Mr. Mehta observed, “It has been said that my outlook can sometimes be dour, even dire. I don’t think you can work in this business without faith or optimism. Reading a manuscript, sensing something special about it, and believing you can find a readership for it, is an article of faith.”Mr. Mehta is survived by his wife, the writer Gita Mehta.A Knopf spokesman said the publisher would name a successor in the new year.“As you can imagine, the ‘legacy question’ was not a subject Sonny leapt at, though it was top of mind,” Ms. McIntosh said in her memo to Knopf Doubleday employees. “Indeed, it was a subject we discussed at length, particularly in recent months.”Penguin Random House is 75% owned by Bertelsmann SE, which has agreed to acquire the remainder of the company pending regulatory approval.Pete Buttigieg raised $24.7 million in the final three months of the year, his campaign said Wednesday.That brings the former South Bend, Ind., mayor’s total last year to about $76 million, making him one of the best fundraisers in the Democratic presidential field.Other candidates had not yet announced their fundraising hauls for the fourth quarter, which ended Tuesday night, but some had teased information about their finances. Campaigns have until the end of January to disclose their quarterly fundraising totals.Joe Biden said as December began he had already hit $15 million for the quarter, about what he raised in the entire three-month summer fundraising period. In a more recent fundraising email, his campaign said the former vice president hoped to top his second-quarter total of about $22 million.Elizabeth Warren’s campaign said in a fundraising email last week that the Massachusetts senator had raised $17 million for the quarter, a slowed pace from her third quarter, when she brought in $24.6 million.Tech entrepreneur Andrew Yang said on social media that his campaign collected more than $4 million from online donors just in the last few days.Mr. Buttigieg’s campaign said more than 733,000 people have made a total of two million donations. The average contribution amount was $38, the campaign said.Mr. Buttigieg has aggressively pursued donors who can give the legal maximum of $2,800, a fundraising style like Mr. Biden’s and most previous major presidential candidates. Two other top contenders this time, Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders and Ms. Warren, have sworn off fundraisers with wealthy donors.Ms. Warren at a Los Angeles debate last month criticized Mr. Buttigieg for his courting of wealthy donors, drawing a response from her rival that she raised money in the same way for almost all of her political career.TEL AVIV—Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu asked lawmakers to grant him immunity from prosecution on corruption charges, ahead of an election in March that will decide his personal and political future.Mr. Netanyahu was indicted in November on charges of bribery, fraud and breach of trust in connection with three corruption probes, becoming the first Israeli prime minister to be criminally charged while in office.Mr. Netanyahu sent an official request for immunity to Israel’s Speaker of Parliament on Wednesday night, according to his family’s spokesman. Mr. Netanyahu announced earlier that he would do so “in order to fulfill my right, my duty, and my mission to continue serving you, the citizens of Israel.”“I will continue to lead Israel for many more years,” he added. He emphasized that he wasn’t asking for perpetual immunity from the charges he faces, but only for the time he serves in office.Mr. Netanyahu’s legal troubles have contributed to an unprecedented period of political paralysis in Israel. Neither he nor his political rivals were able to form governments after back-to-back elections in April and September, with the country bitterly divided over whether Mr. Netanyahu should continue to lead while facing allegations of corruption.Mr. Netanyahu has denied the charges, calling them a witch hunt. He has retained the support of his Likud party and other right-wing political allies, winning a party leadership vote last week by a large margin.With Israel’s parliament disbanded and a caretaker government in power, the committee that would decide Mr. Netanyahu’s request for immunity isn’t in session. The result is that Mr. Netanyahu’s request will be in limbo until a new government is formed after the March 2 election, buying Mr. Netanyahu time before legal proceedings against him can move forward.Mr. Netanyahu’s opponents accuse him of striving to stay in power at any cost—including dragging Israel into a new election cycle—in order to preside over a government that would be more likely to grant him immunity from prosecution.Mr. Netanyahu’s main rival, former military chief and Blue and White party leader Benny Gantz, said in a televised statement on Wednesday night that the next election would decide the character of Israel as a state.“We can either have a statesmanlike unity government…or the kingdom of Netanyahu,” he said.A poll published by Israel’s Channel 12 on Sunday night found that a small majority of Israelis (51%) oppose immunity for Mr. Netanyahu, with 33% supporting it and 16% undecided.Mr. Netanyahu, speaking at an event in Tel Aviv on Sunday night, defended his right to seek immunity. “Immunity isn’t against democracy; it’s a cornerstone of democracy,” he said.As Israel’s longest-serving premier, Mr. Netanyahu is hoping to succeed where other Israeli lawmakers have failed since 2005, after a legal amendment was passed to make it more difficult to get parliamentary immunity. Before the amendment, all Israeli lawmakers had immunity by default and could be stripped of it only by a vote in parliament. Since then, Israeli lawmakers need to ask parliament for immunity.Numerous polls predict voter patterns are unlikely to shift in Israel’s third election in one year, leaving the premier and his allies short of the at least 61 of 120 seats in parliament needed to form a governing coalition—and to grant him immunity.If Mr. Netanyahu does get his majority this could also set up a showdown between the country’s Supreme Court and the premier, analysts say.The court could potentially review parliament’s decision over immunity and overturn it, said Yohanan Plesner, president of the Israel Democracy Institute, a think tank in Jerusalem.To ensure the court can’t intervene, Mr. Plesner said, Mr. Netanyahu could support a bill that curbs the court’s power to stop any legislation passed or administrative procedures carried out by parliament.“That would be a democratic bombshell,” said Mr. Plesner, who said an isolated issue regarding Mr. Netanyahu’s future could “have far-reaching consequences” over the court’s role in Israel.Whether the court would intervene “is the million dollar question,” said Prof. Abraham Diskin, a senior fellow with the Jerusalem-based think tank Kohelet Policy Forum.According to the written law, Mr. Diskin argued, the court has no power to intervene in Mr. Netanyahu’s immunity dispute. “But there are so many precedents in which the court overused its power,” he said, arguing the court might try to intervene anyway.Even without a formal request for immunity, Mr. Netanyahu’s leadership was already facing a challenge in the Supreme Court. On Tuesday, the court began hearings over whether Mr. Netanyahu can legally form a government while being under indictment. The judges suggested that they saw the discussion as premature unless Mr. Netanyahu wins a mandate in an election.Well before Mr. Netanyahu became embroiled in corruption allegations, the right wing in Israel had long complained of extensive overreach by the Supreme Court. In this context, Mr. Netanyahu and his right-wing political allies have talked about legislation that would restore balance between the powers of the legislature and the judiciary.The court has said it is using legitimate methods of interpreting laws.The Food and Drug Administration plans to ban the sale of fruity flavors in cartridge-based e-cigarettes, but the restriction won’t apply to tank vaping systems commonly found at vape shops, according to people familiar with the matter.The action is seen as a compromise between Trump administration officials who want to address a rise in teen vaping and those concerned about the impact on small businesses and the possible political fallout for President Trump, these people said. Polls commissioned by the vaping industry have shown an outright ban would be unpopular in key states for the 2020 election.Federal officials are expected to announce the new plan as soon as Friday. Open-tank vaping devices, which allow users to mix their own nicotine liquids, aren’t popular among children or teenagers, who tend to use vaporizers with prefilled cartridges such as those made by Juul Labs Inc. Open tanks are typically found in vape shops and allow consumers to custom-mix flavors.The new policy, intended to curb a surge in underage vaping, would apply only to pod-based vaporizers such as those made by Juul, NJOY Holdings Inc. and Reynolds American Inc.It would pull from the market all e-cigarette refill pods except those formulated to taste like tobacco or menthol, the people said, dealing a blow to an industry estimated to have estimated $9 billion in annual revenue. The sweet and fruity flavors that would be banned under the new policy represented about 80% of retail-store e-cigarette sales in 2019, according to analyst estimates.The ban would prohibit mint but would allow menthol e-cigarette pods to remain on store shelves, a change from the agency’s earlier plan.Mr. Trump told reporters Tuesday that “we’re taking it off, the flavors, for a period of time, certain flavors.”“We’re going to protect our families. We’re going to protect our children. We’re going to protect the industry,” Mr. Trump said.Mr. Trump has signed legislation passed by the House and Senate banning tobacco and e-cigarette sales to anyone under 21.In anticipation of the FDA’s flavor ban, e-cigarette market leader Juul Labs in November voluntarily stopped the sale of its mint refill pods in the U.S. It had previously halted its U.S. sales of sweet and fruity flavors such as mango, cucumber and creme. Mint was its most popular flavor in 2019, representing about 70% of the company’s U.S. sales. Government data released in November showed that mint was one of the most popular e-cigarette flavors among teenagers.Vaping related illnesses are on the rise, and it appears to be related to a black market of THC vapes. WSJ’s Daniela Hernandez sat down with experts to understand what is happening.In September, the Trump administration said the FDA would ban all e-cigarettes other than those formulated to taste like tobacco. Some conservative interest groups and vaping industry groups fought the ban, arguing it was better to focus on preventing just minors from gaining access to the products.They sought to raise a political point with Mr. Trump, too, saying vaping was popular in key states he needed to win re-election. Some public-health experts said menthol e-cigarettes should remain on the market as an alternative to traditional menthol cigarettes.Fruity flavors were the most commonly reported type of e-cigarette flavor among middle- and high-school students, according to 2019 data from the National Youth Tobacco Survey, published in the Journal of the American Medical Association. Menthol or mint flavors were second among both groups.A separate report published in the same journal showed that among 10th-graders and 12th-graders who used Juul products, mint was the most popular flavor, followed by mango.Blamed for a rise in teen vaping, Juul in 2018 stopped selling in U.S. retail stores all flavors other than mint, menthol and tobacco but continued to sell sweet flavors such as mango on its website until it halted online sales of those flavors in the U.S. in October 2019.While Juul now sells only menthol and tobacco flavors, other manufacturers such as NJOY and Reynolds derive the bulk of their e-cigarette sales from fruity flavors such as watermelon and blueberry, which would be prohibited under the FDA’s new policy.A Reynolds spokeswoman Tuesday called the FDA’s revised plan “a positive step as it sets a level playing field for the entire U.S. industry.” NJOY declined to comment.Matthew L. Myers, president of the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, said the policy “breaks the Administration’s promise to kids and families to eliminate the flavored e-cigarettes that are driving an epidemic of youth nicotine addiction. By leaving menthol flavored e-cigarettes widely available and completely exempting liquid flavored products, this policy will not stop the youth e-cigarette epidemic.”After Juul took most of its flavors out of stores in 2018, many users switched from mango—previously its most popular flavor—to mint, according to a Credit Suisse analysis of Nielsen data.Citing the planned ban on e-cigarette flavors, Altria Group Inc. in October wrote down its investment in Juul by $4.5 billion, cutting its valuation of the startup by more than a third. The Marlboro maker paid $12.8 billion last year for a 35% stake in Juul, making it one of Silicon Valley’s most valuable startups.E-cigarette makers can apply to the FDA for permission to bring flavored products back on the market. To do so, they must demonstrate that the products provide a net benefit to public health.“Hopefully everything will be back on the market very, very shortly,” Mr. Trump said Tuesday night.By May, manufacturers must submit for FDA review any vaping products they want to remain on the market beyond that point, even those that taste like menthol and tobacco. Juul had been preparing application materials on four flavors—mint, menthol, mango and Virginia tobacco—but plans only to submit applications for menthol and Virginia tobacco for the May deadline, according to people familiar with the matter.Reynolds has already submitted an application for some of its Vuse e-cigarettes to the FDA, gaining a head start on Juul and the No. 2 e-cigarette player, NJOY, in seeking permission to keep its vaping products on the market.